People really care about what's making
them disliked. And they really want to
know how to be liked.
>> Okay. So, first, this is an exercise
that I do in my class at Harvard called
10 questions to fall in like.
>> So, if I ask someone those questions,
they're going to like me.
>> It's a great starting point, but let's
talk about this because they're going to
be little clues about how to be better
liked. And it's the most teachable,
practical, scientifically rigorous
framework in the world for
communication. Do you want to hear about
it, Stephen?
>> Of course I want to hear about it. I
want to be the most persuasive,
influential, likable talker in the
world. So, I shall follow your lead.
>> Oh my gosh,
>> it's a lot of power.
>> I love it. I love it so much.
>> Harvard professor Allison Woodbrooks is
a behavioral scientist
>> who has spent two [music] decades
studying conversational science.
>> And she's revealing the communication
mistakes we all make. The art of
negotiation and how to get anyone to
like you.
>> We all get to adulthood and we feel like
conversation should be easy. But as a
scientist, when you look under the hood,
you realize this is why we have so many
awkward moments, why we say things that
we shouldn't, why we are boring, why we
get angry and hostile. And there's very
clear strategies to help us with all of
that. Like one of my biggest findings
was how we reframe social anxiety
[music] as excitement, which makes you
focus on opportunities rather than
threats. And that paper ended up being
featured in Inside Out, the movie. And
then there's small talk.
>> I hate small talk.
>> I'm going to help you reframe that
because it's really important. But the
mistake that people make is that they
say they're way too long and they need
to move up this topic pyramid.
>> What about in a digital age? Do we need
to start communicating differently?
>> Yeah, there's clear things that we
should do to make our textbased
communication better and we'll go
through all of them.
>> And you said you've done an interesting
study recently about male friendship.
>> Yes. And it's quite troubling.
>> So, how can I make more friends as a
man?
>> Yeah, let's talk about that.
I see messages all the time in the
comments section that some of you didn't
realize you didn't subscribe. So, if you
could do me a favor and double check if
you're a subscriber to this channel,
that would be tremendously appreciated.
It's the simple, it's the free thing
that anybody that watches this show
frequently can do to help us here to
keep everything going in this show in
the trajectory it's on. So, please do
double check if you've subscribed and uh
thank you so much because in a strange
way, you are you're part of our history
and you're on this journey with us and I
appreciate you for that. So, yeah, thank
you.
>> [music]
>> Professor Allison Wood Brooks.
What is it that you do and why do you
think it matters so much to the world?
>> I am a professor at Harvard and I'm a
behavioral scientist. I study how people
talk to each other and how they can do
it better. I teach a course that I
created there called talk. I wrote a
book about it, also called Talk: The
Science of Conversation and the Art of
Being Ourselves.
>> And if someone's chosen to listen to
this conversation now, they've just
clicked on it and they're thinking, you
know, should I stay or should I should I
go? What promise can we give them if
they stay and listen to this
conversation that is based on the work
you've done in your book and all the
research you've done? What is it that
you think the average person can come
away with that will have a meaningful
impact on their day-to-day life? All of
life is about relationships and
relationships are about talking. So if
they can learn even one strategy that
helps them in their conversations, it
will massively improve their lives. If
you think of everything from work to
romantic relationships, friendships,
productivity, all of it hinges on having
excellent conversations.
>> But conversations are easy, right? Like
[laughter] you just talk.
>> We all feel that way. We all get to
adulthood and we feel like conversation
should be easy because we started
learning how to do it when we were one
one and a half years old as toddlers and
we practice doing it with an enormous
number of partners conversation partners
every day of our lives. So by the time
we become adults it feels like we should
be experts like we should be great at
it. But as a scientist, when you look
under the hood and you see, oh my
goodness, all of the complexity that's
happening under the hood, you realize,
oh, this is why we have so many awkward
moments, why we say things that we
shouldn't, why we don't say things that
we should, why we hurt each other, why
we get defensive, um why we are boring,
why we get angry and hostile. And there
are very clear strategies to help us
with all of that.
As you were saying that, I was thinking,
do you think there's a lot of people
that are going through life giving off
the wrong impression because they don't
know how to talk? Maybe they are
disliked. Maybe they are misunderstood
because they haven't mastered the
science of how to have a great
conversation. On my worst days, I worry
that everybody's walking around being
misunderstood. When you think about
talking, even as I'm talking right now,
there's no way to take the entire
contents of your mind and all of your
personality and say it out loud. And so,
we're always curating. We're always
choosing what some subset of stuff to
share with other people through
conversation. And no one is doing that
perfectly. And I and I fear that many
people are are really struggling with
it. If you had to pinpoint just a few
things that people want when they think
about becoming a great conversationalist
like what is it that we actually are
aiming at? Is it to be you know what is
that?
>> Yeah. Usually people want to be liked
even loved. Usually we want to enjoy our
conversations to not have them be
miserable. We want to feel safe and
protected and and not have it be
dreadful and timeconuming. And we want
to achieve professional goals. So
advancing and achieving and making great
decisions. So already the very basic
drives of what people are trying to
achieve in conversation are actually a
little bit more complicated than just
like oh we're looking for connection. Um
and then when you really dig into it
within all of the goals that people want
in those categories, it's like a vast
constellation of of motives.
>> I would like you to teach me how to talk
really really well.
>> I don't know if you need my help that
much, Stephen, but I'd love to. Even the
best communicators have room for
improvement.
>> No, I think I do. I think I [laughter]
do because I, you know, this I was
thinking about this last this last week
and all the conversations I've had, the
different types of conversations. I had
one conversation where I met someone's
family for the first time who works with
me. And it was, you know, it was a
little bit nerve-wracking because
>> that contact, you know, people have have
these moments where they meet the
in-laws or whatever or they meet
>> um for me it's often meeting someone who
works with me's family, I find quite
nerve-wracking because they're like, I
think they're kind of probably judging
me. I've also had difficult business
conversations
>> because they are judging you.
>> Yeah, they are judging [laughter] me and
I can feel it. And as I go towards those
conversations, I'm like, "Oh my god."
And then I end up just like freezing or
being a little bit paralyzed. And you'd
think as someone like me who does this
for a living living finds conversations
easy. I absolutely do not. you I I
actually the more uh you know I talk to
very high level seuite um very
successful people and in fact the higher
and more successful people are the more
likely they are to be aware that this is
really important and that they have room
for improvement. It's almost like you're
aware that this skill is probably what
helped you get where you are and
therefore you want to get even better at
it and you're keenly aware of when you
have awkward moments or make mistakes or
missteps and you're like I would really
like to get that out of my life please.
>> Amen. I like ruminate on an awkward
encounter I had like two and a half
weeks ago. I was like, I should have
just da da d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d
d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d
d d d d d but actually in reading some
of your work I thought about what I
could have done and we'll get to this
this idea of preparing for those moments
which I typically don't because I assume
I should be a natural.
>> Can I ask you as you were talking about
these different examples of things that
you're ruminating about? Um, do you feel
like you have a a a weakness or like a a
recurring thing that you suspect you
need to get better at? I think one of
them is I am a bit of an introvert in my
sort of self-classification and as
people know who I am more in the world,
I think I've become more introverted.
>> So, and sometimes that can be perceived
in the wrong way. So, my like happy
state is kind of being alone or around
people that I'm extremely familiar with.
>> If I leave the house and I go say to a
gym or something,
>> I have a little bit of paranoia.
>> Yeah.
>> So, I'm always kind of on edge, which
means that this kind of shuts me down
more. So when I do have conversations, I
can sometimes feel appear to be a bit
more shut down and I don't want to carry
that into moments where I need to be a
bit more open. And then I would say
generally I just like hate small talk.
>> Yeah, you're not alone there.
>> And [laughter] I just say it's like a
point. This is why I think I podcast
because you can just skip straight into
the deep stuff and I can ask people
about their trauma. Like
>> you can do that in normal conversations
too actually. Do you find that you get
stuck in small talk?
>> Yes,
>> a good bit.
>> I just try and avoid it. So I I've got
this funny story. one of the most that
the most prestigious people on planet
earth invited me to come to a thing and
I said no because there would be a
hundred other people there and I just
didn't want to be in a room for four
hours with a bunch of other people like
it just for me it's so exhausting.
>> Yeah.
>> And if I told you that what this context
was you'd burst out laughing [laughter]
and my team were like you go to that
[__] YOU GO
>> AND YOU enjoy it
>> and I'm like no I'm not going there's
[laughter] too many people there. But
that's that's kind of what I'm like. I
love this environment, but I hate small
talk. And I hate
>> I don't know if that's a weakness as
much as it is you learning your
preferences.
>> I think it's okay. Uh maybe we'll get
there, but large groups are very
stressful. Group conversation and
figuring out the structure of like who
should be talking to whom when and about
what is very overwhelming for the human
mind. um it's quite different than one
on intimate one-on-one conversation
which is much more within your control
and it's much clearer what the purpose
is. Um so we should think about it maybe
not a we can reframe it and it's not a
weakness but thinking about your social
portfolio. Who are you talking to? Is it
the right people and are is it in the
right arrangements in the right group
size? So, what we're doing right now
one-on-one is a categorically different
task than going to a party with a
hundred people. So, I'm going to help
you reframe that later on.
[clears throat]
>> Why did you choose to do this? All the
things you could have done with your
life.
>> Yeah, it's Isn't life so fascinating? I
often think about the paths not taken.
Um, but I'm very happy to be on this
path. Um, I grew up in upstate New York
on a small lake in a small town. I was a
late girl, just gorgeous place. And I
love playing sports, team sports in
particular. I love female friendship
from an early age. And probably most
formatively, I'm an identical twin. And
all of the things I just described, I
think, are either
indicators of how much I love
conversation or formed my love of
conversation. But either way, I I
arrived at college deeply interested in
understanding humans and their behavior.
And by the time I got to Harvard, I
realized, wow, there are whole fields
like social psychology and communication
that are purportedly about
communication, but nobody's bothered to
actually transcribe real conversations
and study them at very large scale. And
so that's what I've been up to for the
last 15 years.
>> How has being an identical twin been
formative in this regard? M. So, my
twin's name is Sarah. Um, being an
identical twin, I'm there are many
things that are similar to being a close
sibling, I'm sure. But an identical
twin, it's like you have another version
of you in the world. And we share a
bedroom. We were on the same sports
teams. We played in band together. And
so, it's sort of like watching a version
of yourself up close. And I got to see
how she failed and thought, "Oh, well,
I'm I'm going to avoid that." and I
would see how she succeeds. She hits a
an amazing joke. She answers answers an
amazing question. I know that I'm able
to do that because we have the same DNA,
the same abilities. In a sort of
subconscious way, I think I've just been
chasing trying to help other people find
that in their relationships, uh, in
their friendships, in their romantic
relationships, in their work
collaborations, because I've gotten to
see how amazing that can be for two
human beings, how close you can be and
how much you can actually understand
each other when you communicate well.
>> And what research have you done? Like,
what are the reference points you're
pulling on? Do you do your own research?
>> So much. and give me a flavor of the the
>> Too much probably. I uh it's almost like
I'm a recovering academic. I've been
working in academia doing behavioral
science research for 20 years. I know I
look impossibly young. Um, I started in
graduate school studying emotions,
especially anxiety and and not the kind
of anxiety that requires medication or
therapy necessarily, but the types of
social anxiety that people feel
constantly all day long. And figuring
out, okay, how does it affect different
behaviors like how we negotiate or how
we take advice from each other or how we
perform when we're public speaking? Uh,
these types of things. and then figuring
out strategies and tips to help people
manage that anxiety more effectively.
And one of my biggest findings was how
we reframe anxiety as excitement. Uh
it's a very easy flip to move from it's
essentially they're the same emotion
because they're both high arousal, high
energy, high cortisol, a stress hormone,
um high heart rate, uh sweaty palms. You
just change how you think about it in
your mind. So literally saying things
out loud like I'm excited change how
your appraisal of it. So you actually
experience excitement. It helps you
perform a lot better in a lot of
different ways.
>> So you did a study in 2011 was it?
>> Yes. Yes.
>> The nervous Nelly negotiation study.
>> So that one was about negotiation
specifically the um this excitement
reappraisal. The paper's called get
excited. And that paper actually ended
up being featured in uh Inside Out the
movie.
>> Oh wow.
>> Yeah. There's a great scene where the
main character is about to have a panic
attack and Joy sneaks into the little
cubicle farm of minions and says, "Stop
drawing all of these projections about
how things are going to go badly and
instead draw how things could go well."
Which is so great. And I was sitting in
the movie theater with my kids and my
husband kind of looked down the way and
he was like, "Is that your thing?" And I
was like, "Yeah, yeah, [laughter] yeah,
it's my thing."
>> So, what what did that study show? of
those two studies, the the nervous Nelly
one, but also the the one of excitement.
>> When [clears throat] we feel anxious, as
most people do in negotiations because
it's an intense environment filled with
uncertainty and a lack of control, which
is the recipe for anxiety, we tend we
want to escape. We either want to
relieve that feeling by making
concessions or get out of there, right?
Just exit the interaction. That was the
main finding of the nervous Nelly
anxiety and negotiation paper. The
reframing anxiety as excitement paper is
lots of different ways to convince
yourself that you're feeling excited
just by saying I'm excited out loud. And
in doing so, that makes you focus on
opportunities rather than threats, how
things could go well rather than poorly.
And it has incredible downstream
consequences. Helps you sing better,
helps you do public speaking better, it
helps you collaborate more effectively.
Um, so it's just a very it's a very
powerful intervention.
>> And what was the sort of mechanics of
the study? So, we would have bring
people in. You tell them, "Hey, Stephen,
you're going to be singing karaoke in
front of an audience. People start to
feel quite nervous about this
naturally."
Then, right before they're going to get
up and sing this song, we say, "Okay, an
experimenttor is going to ask you how
you're feeling. Some of you, we want you
to say you're feeling excited, and some
of you, we want you to say you're
feeling anxious." And that alone, when I
say, "Stephen, how are you feeling right
now?" and you say
>> anxious.
>> Great. Okay, let's go sing the song. You
go. People who said I'm anxious sing
worse compared to people who say I'm
excited. They get out there. They're
more in tempo, more on pitch. They have
better rhythm. And we measure it with a
software when they're actually singing
in front of the experimenters.
>> Just by me saying I am excited.
>> Yeah.
>> So the other day when I met my team
members family, I I should have been
saying to myself, I'm so excited to meet
them. among other things. So, so this
and this is important. It doesn't always
work, right? If you're terrified
>> and it's really something dreadful, like
you're terrified that your mother's
going to die and turns out it's going to
be hard to get excited about that if she
has a terminal illness. But on the
margin, if you're sort of torn between
feeling nervous or excited in your mind,
if you can really convince yourself that
you actually are excited and that things
could go well, I'm going to crush this
exam. I'm gonna I'm gonna tear it up on
the basketball court. That flip, if
repeated enough, actually becomes more
likely to come true and certainly before
a high stakes conversation like meeting
your colleagues family.
>> So interesting. I I really I have this
behind the scenes channel um called
Behind the Diary on YouTube and uh the
other day when I did Jimmy Fallon
because it's kind of outside of my
wheelhouse to go on like late night TV
in America and like seven minutes to be
funny or whatever. So I was [__]
myself cuz I'm a very serious guy.
[laughter]
So before I went out, there's a video of
me and I said to my team, what I said to
myself before the little curtain opened
was, "This is going to be amazing. Can't
wait. You've you've like prepared for
this." Then I said all this nonsense in
my head thinking that it was nonsense
and I walked out. I had the best time of
my life. It was it went so great.
>> Great.
>> And I I made a video about that how, you
know, I'm not one to believe in things
that without like rigor and evidence and
I didn't have it.
>> Now you do.
>> Now I do. [laughter] Now we have a study
that proves that it's not.
>> This one is interesting. I think this
was the beginning of my scientific
journey realizing that the way we talk
to other people and the way we talk to
ourselves especially in a repeated sense
if you think about okay you did that
before Jimmy Fallon now what if you do
it before the next time you meet a
colleague's family now what if you do it
before you interview Bill Gates before
you do it right if you then get in the
habit of telling yourself you're excited
and that becomes effective for you it's
incredibly meaningful in accumulation
over time right so just focusing on one
time yes it's helpful but if you can
make it habitual it has this sort of
upward spiral effect on people it was
the beginning of my scientific journey
thinking oh well if we can study one
phrase like get excited or I'm excited
what if we start studying the cascading
unfolding ways that people talk to each
other and not just one line but like
every turn of a conversation no one had
done that before
>> and this negotiation study you did what
was the mechanism for that
>> yeah that was a more class so the the
literature. People have been studying
negotiations for decades now. And
there's a really great negotiation
course at almost every business school
and law school that's based in all of
this rigorous work. What had not been
studied on in terms of negotiating are
people's emotions. It was a it was about
15 years ago that people including
scholars came to the point where we were
like, "Oh, people's feelings matter."
When they feel nervous or when they feel
angry, that's actually important
distinction. how you feel on the inside
versus what you're expressing to your
counterpart. So in this paper, what we
found is as a base rate, most people
feel anxious before and during a
negotiation because it is an intense
environment. It's probably one of the
greatest benefits of taking a
negotiation course is that you just get
reps and so you get more comfortable
with the process of doing it. That might
be the biggest takeaway from doing a
training course like that. And so in
this paper, we had that sort of base
rate. Look, everybody's feeling anxious.
Um, and then what are the downstream
consequences of feeling anxious? And
what we find people, we had people doing
negotiations, playing these negotiation
games. What we find is that people are
much more likely to sort of leave
prematurely or make more concessions to
relieve the feelings of anxiety,
>> make bad offers.
>> Yeah. Or it depends on your goals,
right? If you if your goal is to claim a
lot of value, then making concessions
and giving money away is not going to
help you with that. So, if I'm asking my
boss for a pay rise, for example, and I
and I'm very very nervous, I'm much more
likely to um lower my expectations,
accept a bad offer, and leave the
situation prematurely.
>> Absolutely.
>> So, what do I do about that?
>> Oh, so many things. If we're talking
about asking for a raise, um what you
want is to go in there with as much sort
of personal power as you can, one way to
do that is to get another job offer
somewhere else first. So, we talk about
this as the best alternative to a
negotiated agreement, a BATNA. You want
to strengthen your BATNA. So, if your
boss says, "No, I'm not giving you a
raise." You can legitimately say, "I'm
going to go take this other job offer
cuz I just got a better offer from the
guy down the street."
>> What if you don't want to take the the
other offer?
>> Then you need to be honest with yourself
about how much power you have in the
negotiation. You also probably a lot of
people make the mistake of going in sort
of hands on hips like I deserve more
money. There are lots of questions that
you should ask first to know am I
negotiating with the right person? Does
my company have the funds to actually
give me more money? Why? What? How can I
justify this in a way that's compelling
to them? Right? It's it's not up to you.
It's that they they need to want to keep
you and to feel like you are being
fairly and generously rewarded and all
of that requires asking a lot of
questions before you go in and start
making demands.
>> In that context, how would you try and
persuade me if you work for me? So, what
would you say? Because I do think, you
know, it's very easy to get someone's
backup when you walk in and ask them for
money. Yeah.
>> If you do it
>> 100%. I
it's hard for me to answer this because
um maybe this is sort of my personal
values. It's almost like I'm taking off
my expert hat for a moment. I think the
best way to get a raise is to be
awesome.
Do things that are valuable
and your company is going to give you
more money without even having to ask
for it. So in my heart, this question of
how do we have a conversation where I
ask for more money? It's almost like I I
would hope that you don't even get to
that point. If you are truly making
yourself almost irreplaceable and
incredibly valuable, your boss is going
to be coming to you and saying, "I have
to keep you around. You're amazing.
You're so incredible." That's a much
easier conversation to have than walking
in and saying, "I'm I'm it's not fair. I
don't make enough."
>> I do think that holds to be true. I
think that generally if people's first
priority is what they want, then they
often don't tend to get what they want.
But people who have the priority, their
first priority is what I can give tend
to get what they want.
>> That's right. It's so um it's a bit of a
sort of like a mindset shift. If you
prioritize other people's needs, if
you're thinking about what your boss
finds valuable, what the organization
finds valuable, and you rise to meet
those needs, you make yourself valuable,
which is going to come back to you. Um
hopefully that's what that's the hope.
And I think often that is the case.
Almost always that is the case in the
talk framework and we'll get there. The
K is for kindness. And it's not kindness
in the sense of like altruism because
I'm going to help my boss and do
everything he wants because I care so
deeply. That can be part of it. But also
it's this sort of loop of like well if
you give him everything every if you
give the organization what it needs
that's going to come back to you. You
will actually become valuable and get
what you want as well. That's how
relationships work. Usually when I
interview people, I lead the way. Today,
I'm going to follow, okay? [laughter]
Because you know the outcome that me and
the audience want to get to. So, I have
all this stuff here.
>> I love it. Props.
>> I have all these props.
>> Fabulous.
>> I have these blocks that for anyone that
can't see the conversation, say T A L K
on them. Talk.
>> Fabulous.
>> And you tell me the best place to start.
You know the outcome. You know where I
want to get to. I want to be the best
conversationalist, the best talker, the
most persuasive, influential, likable
talker in the world. Um, so I shall
follow your lead.
>> Oh my gosh,
>> it's a lot of power.
>> I love it. I love it so much. Um, let's
start with this. Um, I want you to think
of a conversation that you had recently.
It has to be more than 5 minutes long.
>> More than five? Yes, I can think of one
immediately. It was a conversation I had
with my girlfriend where I just wanted
her to know that I accept the fact that
I [__] up. Like I I I accept the fact
that I should have been more present in
a particular moment and I wasn't. And I
just wanted to like
>> own it.
>> Own it
>> and and convey that to her
>> and convey that I'm sorry and I get it.
>> Yeah.
>> And this is not one where I'm going to
try and justify my whatever. No,
actually
objectively I should have been more
attentive and present. Y
>> I just wanted her to know that.
>> Yep. So you sort of have an admission of
blameworthiness.
Uh why why did you want to do that?
>> Because I felt that she was right and I
regretted my my behavior.
>> Yeah.
>> So sometimes I don't feel like she's
right. Sometimes I'm here to, you know,
respond. In this particular scenario, I
thought, you know, actually on balance,
I should have been more present. This
was an important time for her and in
hindsight,
that's not how I wish I had behaved.
>> Okay. How did you want her to feel
during and at the end of this
conversation?
>> Understood.
>> And
you really unders that was really it.
It's like I wanted her to feel
understood and
>> I guess like connected to me. But it's
more it's really more I just wanted her
to not worry that I didn't understand so
she didn't have to say it again. Like I
just wanted her to know that I I get it.
>> Mhm.
>> Mhm. Mh.
>> And that in future I wish I behave
differently.
>> How did you want to feel during and
after this conversation?
>> I guess I wanted to offload the guilt.
>> Uhhuh. [laughter]
Aha. Good. Good.
>> Because I felt bad. I felt like no
actually.
>> And it was weighing on your conscience.
You were like, I got to I I got to say
that. I got to own this because it's
making me feel like a [__]
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Fabulous. Okay.
When we look back on our conversations
and try and describe what our goals
were, very quickly you start to realize
that our goals are very complicated that
we want a lot of things. I'm also
guessing there may have been a time
component. Can you talk a little bit
about that? Like how much time did you
have to achieve these goals?
>> I mean, I never seem to have enough
time. So, it was like it was [laughter]
Yeah. So, I I I had about probably about
20 minutes.
>> Great. Hey, that's pretty good.
>> I wish I had 20 minutes with my husband.
Okay. Um, so I have a framework that
helps us think about conversational
goals and I call it the conversational
compass. Okay. And like a compass that
you might use to find your way out of
the desert or the forest. The compass
helps you decide which way not to walk
but to talk. Okay. So the xaxis
>> I'll put this on the screen for anyone
that's uh can see the video.
>> Great. Um, the X-axis, which runs
horizontally, is about your
relationship.
>> Also, I'll link it below.
>> So, this relational axis, high
relational goals are things that you
care about that are serving the other
person or your relationship. This
conversation sounded very high
relational. You're truly like, I just
really want her to know that I feel like
a [__] and that I'm owning it and
like I care and I maybe won't do it
again. Something like that. Low
relational goals are things we care
about that serve us. So in this case you
said something like I want to offload
get rid of my guilt. I wasn't I was
feeling bad. [snorts] The why access is
about information exchange. High
informationational goals are hinge on
exchanging accurate information. It's
sort of the reason human beings learn
develop the ability to communicate at
all right way back when is to take
what's in my brain communicate it to you
accurately. But we care about tons of
stuff that is lowformational. So it's
not about exchanging information and
sometimes it's about concealing it. In
this case, you had a highformational
goal. You wanted to sort of persuade her
or prove to her that you're a good guy
and that she should stay with you
essentially, trust you. But you also had
lowformational goals like you didn't
want it to be emotionally unpleasant to
have this conversation. You also had
lowformational goals like a time
constraint. You needed to protect your
time and her time. uh and and so we're
always limited by time and cognitive
resources.
So the point of this is to help us plot
all of those goals in a logical way. Uh
each quadrant is good. We live in all
four quadrants. We're not trying to get
to one or another. It's just to help us
describe all of the many things that we
actually care about almost to validate
them and say, "Listen, it's legit that
you wanted to relieve your guilt. super
admirable that you wanted to signal to
her that like you're owning this
mistake. It's legit that you have time
constraints. It's legit that you don't
want your conversations to be
unpleasant. So each of the quadrants get
gets a positive name. Highformational,
high relational is about connection.
Okay. Often you'll hear communications
uh experts just talk about connection
which is um too narrow. It's not the
only thing that we care about down here.
Low informational, high relational is
about savoring.
>> What does informational mean
>> in this context?
>> Like how much uh accurate information
you are trying to you need to exchange
with each other. If we just sat here
kind of quietly and I hummed a song
because we that and I said something
like I love your shirt. We're not
exchanging a lot of information but we
might be having a very lovely
interaction with each other. So not
every conversation is about high
information exchange though many people
think that it is. You know these people
they're very transactional. They feel
like a conversation is where you just
say things you know at other people and
that they're going to say things they
know back at you. That's a big mistake.
>> So having fun I can see is in the bottom
right corner.
>> Having fun. Yes.
>> Because it's not about huge information
exchange but it is about connections.
Okay.
>> Oh and it's really important. Many of my
students at Harvard almost forget about
this quadrant. They're like, "If we're
not persuading and making decisions,
we're not living right. Like, this is
really important, especially over time.
If we're not enjoying being with each
other, I'm not going to look forward to
talking to you again." That's true at
work and outside of work. Lower left is
essentially discernment. We call it
protection. It's protecting your time,
protecting your reputation, protecting
information. So, concealing, keeping
secrets, moving quickly. We can't sit
here for hours and hours and hours. Um,
and then protecting your reputation.
Like you care about making a positive
impression on other people. I want you
to see me as smart and warm and calm and
trustworthy. These are self-serving, low
relational or low informational goals.
And then we get up to upper left, which
is low relational, they're self-s
serving, high informational. This is a
lot of work rellated goal, persuasion,
making decisions, brainstorming, etc. So
if I want to be liked and have great
relationships, I need to be on the right
side of this. Is that accurate?
>> So what happens if someone who trusts
you and loves you tells you something in
confidence and then you go tell
everybody else?
>> You lose trust.
>> Yeah. So it's not that you can only live
on this side of the compass because
discernment matters
>> for relationships. Okay. Right. So, and
here you are going to be in a
relationship where hopefully you're
going to be like brainstorming things
together, making decisions together.
Even with a friend, you're like, "Oh,
where should we go to dinner tonight?"
You need to make that coordinate that
choice well together. So, I think one
aspiration is to try and be over on the
right side as much as you can. And in
fact, having the mindset of pushing
yourself to try and think about your
goals that are more pro-social more
often is a virtuous goal. But like
listen, we all have actual needs. So
like you can't only live on the right
side of the compass. It's about moving
around in a way that is savvy and and
actually serves what you care about.
>> Yeah.
>> Gotcha.
>> Do you have a sense of where your goals
from that conversation that you
described would be?
>> Apologize.
>> Which is high relational
and not very high on informational cuz I
didn't have a bunch I didn't have a lot
to say. It was just very simply about
letting her know that I was sorry. And
it wasn't I didn't have a big
explanation or a bunch of excuses or
justifications. It was just listen, I
[__] up. Yeah, I get it.
>> Can we talk about apologies for a sec?
>> Sure.
>> I love that you chose this as your
example because and the way you're
describing it. I love how you're saying
um I didn't go into a huge explanation
of why I did it or anything. More people
should apologize that way. A lot of
people their instinct when they're
apologizing is to revisit the problem
and sort of make excuses or explain why
they m did the thing wrong. It's not
effective. Um what is more effective is
what you're describing. Taking ownership
and saying, "Look, I I just messed up
and I'm so sorry and I feel awful about
it." And the most effective component of
an apology is actually making a promise
to change. If you say to your
girlfriend, "I realize I messed up here.
I'm not going to do it again. Here's how
I'm going to be different in the future.
Like a concrete plan. It's so compelling
to hear that you've thought about that
and that and then it's measurable
because she can see in the future. Do do
you actually live up to that promise? Do
you follow through on this promise to
never do make the mistake again?
>> Is there a point where you can apologize
too much?
>> We studied this. I ran some studies on
this. Um, we started by looking at um,
frequency of apologies made during
normal conversations. It's quite rare
for someone to over apologize, but it
does seem like within one conversation,
if you apologize more than twice, it
starts to be more of a reminder of the
bad thing that happened. Like you just
keep revisiting it and it brings you
back to the negativity rather than
moving forward.
We also studied apologies in a really
large data set of parole hearings like
among people who had committed really
serious crimes and we looked at the
types of apologies that they made in
their par during their parole hearings.
And there it seems like you actually
can't overapologize like more is better.
And again, the most effective component
is making a promise to change in the
future. Um I'm going to go I'm when I
get out I'm going to be an AA. I'm going
to live live with my grandmother. here's
the job I'm going to do, whatever the
plan is. Um, you're actually more likely
to get out of jail.
>> And going into those difficult
conversations, is there anything one
needs to do to prepare?
>> Because we our lives are full of
difficult conversations and actually
it's the avoidance of them that ends up
messing up our lives the most. So when
you think about difficult conversations
that we all have to have or with
difficult people is do I have to prepare
for that?
>> So this is very natural. Almost every
person that you hear talk about
communication tends to focus on
difficult conversations. I'm going to
suggest to you that that is a very
narrow view of the conversational world
actually. And in fact, thinking about
difficult conversations is a little bit
of a misnomer. It's not like there are
some conversations that are difficult
and some that are easy.
>> It's that in every conversation there
can be moments of difference where we
use different language to mean the same
thing. where we have an in congruence in
our emotions, where we have a difference
in motives. I want to give you advice,
but you don't want to take it. Or
something dips down to a difference in
our identities. I'm American and you're
a Brit. So, anytime you encounter these
little fleeting moments of difference in
all of these different ways, and maybe
there was an image here. Let me see. No,
it's not here. Um, it looks like layers.
We talk about it like layers of the
earth. And above the surface are the
words and sounds that you hear while
people are talking. Right at the surface
are people's emotions. So I feel excited
but you feel tired and bored. That's
going to be uh tough. Right below that
are people's motives. What I want to
that gets back to the compass. What I
want to achieve is different than what
you want to achieve. We're all walking
around with a compass in our mind and
they're different from each other. Right
below that are our beliefs. Right? I
believe that immigration is a problem
and you believe that AI is a way bigger
problem than human immigration.
>> Um how do we talk about that in a way
and then all of it get dips down to the
the sort of hot magma in this layers of
the earth model of our identities. So
even an easy conversation, we're on a
date or we're two spouses are driving in
a car or friends are hanging out
watching a movie, like you can stumble
upon these little moments of difficulty
any time for any reason and you need to
have the skill set to be able to make
sure the temperature doesn't get too
hot.
>> What is that skill set?
>> There's a fabulous research on this. I
have found it incredibly helpful in my
life um research by Julia Mincson, Mike
Yman's, Hannah Collins called
receptiveness. So it's receptiveness to
opposing viewpoints and it's both the
mindset when you when someone comes to
you with something that seems crazy,
you don't judge it negatively. You have
to fight the human instinct to think of
it as like that's crazy, that's wrong,
and now I'm going to win and now I'm
going to be right and prove you wrong.
Because all of those instincts ruin our
conversations and our relationships.
>> Why? It makes us defensive on the
receiving end. It makes us sort of
accusatory and hostile on the attack
end. Once we get into an accusation and
defense mode, the conversation is broken
down. It's no longer
about connection favoring, protecting,
and advancing. We're now in this new
world that is not achieving any of our
goals.
>> She says someone comes to me and comes
to you and says something crazy. They
say, you know, the sky is purple. Yeah,
>> it's actually it's not blue, it's
purple.
>> Here's a magical phrase that you can say
in that moment. It makes sense that you
feel that the sky is purple. It makes
sense that you feel excited to tell me
that the sky is purple. It makes sense
that you feel X about Y. Makes sense
that you feel skeptical about podcasts.
It makes you It makes sense that you
feel annoyed that I speak quickly. It
makes sense that you are worried about
AI. Whatever people are feeling,
whatever they express to you, we can
validate that feeling because whatever
is going on in their mind is their
reality. And we have to say that out
loud before we go on to do anything
else, even if we're about to disagree
with them vehemently.
But we have to say the validation piece
first just like therapists do all the
time in order for them to feel heard and
like, "Oh yeah, I'm safe here so that I
can join you on your side of the table
and now we're going to untangle this
weird problem together." You say the sky
is purple. Tell me more like what how
did you come to feel like the sky is
purple? Um are do you are you color
blind? Are you do you see everything in
purple? Like now I can ask you questions
about how you came to that perspective
and we can learn I can learn about it.
>> I guess the risk is you don't want to
>> validate something wrong.
>> Yeah.
>> Why not?
>> You don't want to appear to be saying
cuz if I say it makes sense that you
think the sky is purple but it's
actually blue.
>> The word thinks is important. It's it
makes sense that you feel X about Y.
>> Not it makes sense that you think X
about Y. Thinking is like a cognition.
>> Is the risk of it sounding patronizing?
Maybe, but in in in practice it feels
really really good. When I run this, so
I run an exercise in my class where we
go around. Let's say there there's a
group of five students and you have to
share something. We start easy like
share one song you love and then the
next person has to validate that before
they share their favorite next song. And
you go around and around very quickly.
And so it feels very contrived to say,
okay, you have to say, I love that you
love that Taylor Swift song. That's so
interesting. I actually don't like
Taylor Swift. It feels very contrived,
but when you talk to the students after
it, they say, "Yes, I knew what we were
doing." It did feel over the top to say
that about people's song preferences.
And still, it felt amazing to have the
person next to me say, "I love that you
love that Taylor Swift song."
Validation. We are all so hungry for
validation that even ridiculous
validation feels amazing. So then when
you get to round two and everybody's
sharing something that they're really
struggling with and the person next to
them says, "Wow, I'm so sorry. That
sounds really, really hard." It makes
sense that you feel upset about your
mom. Now you've got that habit and
you're making them feel quite good about
something that actually does deserve
that validation. So it's all about like
developing these habits no matter where
the difference or disagreement is coming
from. What's the opposite of that?
>> The opposite is what how people
naturally respond, tend to naturally
respond, which is by trying to win and
prove them wrong and prove that they're
right. So you say the sky is purple and
I say that's crazy. Skye's blue.
And then where does our conversation go?
It feels terrible for you. It's so I
learned this um [clears throat]
because I employed this person once and
this person when we'd talk about ideas
the first word out of their mouth was
always I disagree and then they'd make
their point.
>> That's right.
>> And I don't know what it was about it,
but I noticed that it would like get my
backup
>> of course.
>> And so I'd say I don't know. I'd say I
think we should do it like this. I
disagree. Yeah.
>> And then they'd make their point. And I
remember thinking, gosh, that's such a
>> And it's so ironic because their goal is
to persuade you. At the end of it, they
want you to agree with their position.
That's not at all how persuasion works.
The only way that we change our beliefs
is is usually across many conversations.
And we're around someone we like talking
to and respect and have admiration for.
And then over time, we sort of bend to
the gentle pressure of their differing
viewpoint.
If I say, "I disagree. Now, let's fight
about it."
>> You're you get your backup and you're
not having you're not enjoying talking
to me. Even if you're right and right,
like it's not about being right or wrong
in that moment.
>> The goal here is to keep the
conversation in an emotional place where
it can continue. So, you can continue to
engage. And that's what these
researchers find in this receptiveness
research is there. If you qualify your
statement saying like, "I wonder if the
sky could be a different color rather
than the sky is blue with certainty."
There are all of these sort of hedging
language, you can divide yourself into
multiple parts. So if you said to me,
"The sky is purple," I would say, "Oh my
gosh, as your friend and as a painter,
that is so intriguing to me." As a
biologist or as a as a meteorologist,
maybe we should investigate that.
>> Um, literally dividing yourself into two
disagreeing parts. It's usually how we
actually feel. So if your mother says
something crazy to you that seems crazy
to you, you could say as your daughter,
I'm so intrigued that you've come to
hold that perspective. I'd love to hear
more. You know, as a representative of
Gen Z, I know my friends would want you
want me to say this. It means that you
can hold two perspectives at once and it
is very helpful to the other person to
keep the conversation going. But all of
the elements of this receptiveness
recipe have have this flavor. It's a
little surprising. I think often people
think of these types of things as
weakness because it's like our our
instinct is to try to win and be right.
And instead, what I'm saying is no,
hedge your claims. Show that you're
uncertain about stuff. Validate their
feelings. Divide yourself into
disagreeing parts because you're not
certain about anything in order to keep
the conversation going so that you have
any shred of hope of persuading them
over the longer term. I remember Tali
Sharrett telling me about a study
either. She told me, she's a
neuroscientist in London and she told me
they put two people in a brain imaging
scanner and got them to like look at
photos and come to agreement on the
price of something. Yes.
>> And then eventually in these studies,
I'm super paraphrasing here. She's
probably like cringing.
>> I think I know what study you're talking
about.
>> Oh, do could you explain it?
>> Yeah. So, so they studied what what
lights up in your brain when you're in a
situation of disagreement versus
agreement. And it is actually more
taxing to your mind when someone is
disagreeing with you. It's like these
neurological um alarm bells go off and
all of a sudden
>> like you describe what was your afraid?
My back goes up. What was
>> Yeah, my back goes up. I get my back up.
Yeah,
>> that's it. It's actually in your brain.
Your brain goes up and it's hard. It's
it's very hard to continue to engage
once that process is underway.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. Some people call it amydal
hijacking, which is not quite right. Um,
but your brain does look different when
you're in a situation of disagreement.
So, whatever we can do conversationally
to sort of tamp that down so that your
back doesn't go up [clears throat]
>> is going to be quite helpful.
>> She showed pictures of the brain in
these scans when someone disagrees with
you. And I think, and I might be getting
this inverted, that it was almost like
the brain had shut down to
receptiveness. Yes. In that moment it
was like so I always when I wrote this
chapter in my book called do not
disagree. It's it's an intentionally
provocative chapter because people think
what do you mean never disagree with
anybody but I mean like don't make the
first thing you say I disagree.
>> That's right. It can come later. It can
come later but first has to come like oh
it's so intriguing that you said that.
I'm so fascinated and it makes sense
that you might feel that way. I wonder
if and then you can go on instead of I
disagree. I met a girl called an who
always said yes and instead of but
>> good
>> and it shocked me because it was so
different. I having a conversation with
her, you say something to her and you go
I think this and she goes yes and and
then she would make her point and it
could be a complete disagreement but I
noticed she was doing it and I loved it.
>> Yeah. Oh yeah. And you we often think of
the yes and as part of sort of improv
comedy humor etc. They were the
comedians were really on to something
much more profound about conversation
broadly. If you can come from a sort of
mindset or like spiritual place of yes
and essentially you're saying uh I'm
going to give you the benefit of the
doubt here even though it what you're
saying seems a little crazy.
>> Mhm.
>> That's what is required to have great
relationships. It's like we're all going
to have these moments where someone
feels something or says something that
seems crazy. And if you react to it in
an invalidating way,
that's how we kill our relationships.
>> Do we need to kill the word but? Because
what ends up happening is someone will
say the thing you just said about
validating relationships. Yes, I
completely understand. Um I think you
made a great point, Allison, but. And
the minute I say but, it's kind of like
I've just taken an eraser to everything
you just said.
>> I would love to get rid of the word but.
Not but with two T's but but with one T.
Yes. [laughter]
>> Yeah. You never need it. You can make
the same point and say and
>> but [laughter] like it just completely
it just it immediately says
>> it rever it also reveals that you're
sitting there
in a state of I I can't wait. I'm like
on the tip of my tongue is something I
can't wait to say that's opposite of
what you're saying. And it's the the
spirit of it is is antagonistic.
>> One of the things we notice when we have
conversations on this show about uh
about conversation
>> is people really care about likability.
>> Yes.
>> Like they they really want to know
what's making them disliked and they
really want to know how to be liked.
>> Good. So being liked is a huge drive. Um
but it's just one of many things that we
we care about in terms of gaining
status. So status is uh respect,
admiration, liking in the eyes of other
people. Liking is usually comes from
sort of warmth and charm. Uh admiration
often comes from like perceptions of
competence. So we want warmth and
competence at once ideally. Okay. Let's
go back in time. Should we talk about
the talk framework because they're going
to be little clues about how to be
better liked across the whole framework.
>> Okay. [laughter]
>> Okay. Let's start with T. I'm going to
push these to the side. T is first I
just want to say as a whole framework
TAK
is the most comprehensive teachable
practical scientifically rigorous
framework in the world for
communication.
>> Did you invent it?
>> I did.
>> So you would say that
>> but I didn't when I first wrote the book
I didn't say it strongly enough. And in
the last almost year I've come to
realize why. One part is because most
people focus only on difficult
conversations and here we are focusing
on all conversations even the ones that
seem like they should be easy and fun.
It's all conversations everywhere
personal and professional. The other
piece is that I didn't even really
intend this as a scientist but the way
we do research is essentially uh natural
language processing machine learning
fits into this new world of AI. So the
framework can be used by humans or
machines to coach people to be better
conversationalists and used as a rubric
after the fact of saying, "Okay, how did
this go? Did you do well? Let's look at
T A L K and evaluate."
>> Okay, it's the best in the world ever. I
>> thank you, Stephen. Okay, thank you.
>> Um, thank you for recognizing.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Okay. T is for topics.
>> Topics.
>> Topics. Topics are the building blocks
of conversation. It is what we choose to
talk about.
>> Okay,
>> very simple. We all have an intuitive
understanding that we sort of work
through different chunks. First, we're
going to talk about your conversation
with your girlfriend. Then, we're going
to talk about the talk framework. Then,
we're talk about the compass, whatever.
We're working through topics. What I
think most people don't realize is that
we're choosing topics every time we
talk. It's not just at the beginning of
a conversation like an opener like,
"Hey, what do you think of this, you
know, the diplomat?" No, it's every time
you're talking, we're making moves to
gently stay on topic or switch to
something else. What's so beautiful
about that is it means we all have
power. We all have control to nudge the
conversation one way or another.
And we can all do a better job with it.
>> So, what's the game here? To pick better
topics, to know what topic we're aiming
at.
>> There's a lot of goals. It's both about
choosing better topics. It's also about
how can we make any topic better. Okay,
one huge piece of advice that when you
start to realize how much your mind is
doing during a live conversation is to
offload some of that cognitive work to
beforehand.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. [clears throat] So, prepping
topics ahead of time. This does not mean
writing out an agenda before you call
your parents or before you call your
girlfriend. What it does mean is
spending even 30 seconds, maybe even 10
seconds before you're in the chaos of a
conversation to think about what you
could talk about or what might be
important for you to remember to talk
about.
>> Did you do that today?
>> Always.
>> Sometimes you don't have to, right? Like
you did it today. You did extensive
prep. Um, you even have things printed
on cards here.
>> And in a [clears throat] way, I have
been prepping for this conversation for
20 years. I've been studying these
things. I designed the framework myself.
I've gone on 80 other, you know,
podcasts. I that's all prep for this
moment.
>> What about in your personal life?
>> Yeah.
>> Can you give me an example of where you
prepared topics?
>> Every conversation that I know is
coming. I give an example.
>> So with Casi uh before I got here,
>> which is a member of our team.
>> Yes. Thank you. I thought about I wanted
to ask her what it's like to be moving
from London to LA. I wanted to ask her
what it's like to work with you. She
said all good. All good things.
[laughter]
>> All good things. Next question. What
does A mean? [laughter]
>> So funny. Um I often will um so you can
It's not rocket science. It's literally
just a little bit of forethought. What
kinds of questions or topics could I ask
you that will make our conversation feel
a little bit better than just like
winging it in the moment and talking
about like some random thing I see in
the room?
>> Mh. [clears throat]
I try to do this before every
conversation because now I know how
powerful it is and how kind it is. If
you are calling somebody and you're
like, "Okay, oh yeah, their kid was
going to take guitar lessons. I should
remember to ask about that." Or, "Oh, my
friend had this big presentation at
work. I should remember to ask how that
went." That means you're going to
remember to ask them and that's super
kind and it they're excited to talk
about it, too. It makes everything
better. So, topic prep is a huge deal.
In our research, what we find when you
randomly assign people to prep topics or
not, the conversations where people have
thought ahead even for 30 seconds, they
feel less anxious. They're much
smoother. There are fewer disfluencies,
so ums, stutters between topics. They
cover more topics, which is usually a
good thing. More likely to land on good
topics. You're less likely to blurt, so
you're less likely to share things that
you don't want to share with people.
It's just an incredibly powerful
strategy and it doesn't need to be
complicated. I've gotten in the habit of
putting like two or three bullet points
for people in my Google calendar notes
when you know you have a meeting coming
up and and you don't even have to do it
right before like oh a week ahead of
time if it pops in my head that I want
to ask Stephen about do you want to have
children I might write that as a little
bullet point in my calendar note for the
time that I'm going to be here with you
and then I'll be more likely to remember
it. Do you feel skeptical about this?
>> No. I was just thinking it probably
makes you more, going back to the point
about likability, it probably makes you
a more likable person.
>> Much more likable. Yeah. In fact, if you
can achieve more of your goals, whether
they're high informational,
lowformational, high relational, low
relational, um, all of that makes you
more likable. You you seem more
competent. You seem more warm,
especially when you lean towards those
pro-social, high relational uh, goals.
Cuz everyone talks about how if you're
interested in someone else, like you
were interested in Cozy.
>> Yes,
>> that must have felt good for her, which
must make her like you more.
>> We should go ask her.
>> That's a good point.
>> I ask um I have my students sometimes do
a reflection task where I say, "If you
had to walk into a room and your your
job was to make people like you a one
out of 10, a five out of 10, or a 10 out
of 10, what are the behaviors that you
would do to try and pursue those three
worlds?" Okay. So, if I wanted people to
like me, one out of 10. Yeah. What What
would you do? You tell me. You tell me.
You're the expert. [laughter]
>> I want to hear your I want to hear your
guesses.
>> My guesses I would walk in quiet on my
phone and I would ignore them and maybe
[clears throat] I'd look up and make
some kind of snide comment. I definitely
wouldn't notice that they were there.
>> Yeah.
>> And I
wouldn't make eye contact with them. I
>> would maybe be rid like take a phone
call.
>> I was gonna say you one's really low. So
you probably insults probably.
>> Oh yeah, I'd offend them.
>> Yeah, offend [clears throat] them.
>> Maybe take a phone call and then while
you're on the phone call, talk about how
great you are. Or something, right? Like
some sort of arrogance, etc.
>> Um maybe if they try and talk to you,
interrupt them.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh and be like, "Not now."
>> Or look at my phone midway through what
they're saying. Like Yeah.
>> Yeah. Okay. So there's lots of things
you can imagine there.
>> Okay.
>> Already we've touched on topics though,
right? When you think about, okay, I'm
talking on the phone in front of them
and what am I going to be talking about
that reduces my likability even for
someone who's like just observing you
talking?
>> I'd get the name.
>> That's great. Yep. Yep. Yep. Yep.
>> That's a good way to say you don't
matter to me.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Five out of 10 is an
interesting one. You want to do it's
probably more blaszeise like you engage
with them but not very well.
Talk about small talk topics like you
were saying things that you could talk
about with anyone that are not
personalized at all seem a bit
disinterested
um but not offensive just bland.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. Then we get to 10 out of 10 world.
You
>> 10 out of 10 liability.
>> Yeah. What are what are you doing if
you're trying to get 10 out of 10?
>> I am completely focused on them.
>> Good. Um, I'm attentive. I'm
complimentary. I'm gonna flatter them.
>> Yeah.
>> Um,
>> do you think it will seem obquous?
>> And I don't know if I get it right.
>> Okay.
>> Um, because I'm going to mean it.
>> Yeah. Cuz it's going to be sincere.
>> It's going to be really sincere.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm going to crack a great joke.
>> Yes.
>> Knock knock.
>> Yeah. Who's there?
>> I don't know. I [laughter]
like I don't know. My friend, didn't
you?
>> Exactly.
>> So, yeah, I'm going to flatter them.
Crack jokes. Be very attentive. Get
their name right. Ask them about their
grandchild.
>> Good. Okay, let's pause. I want to in
that description already you're moving
quite quickly through topics as you're
interacting with them. You know that you
can't be circling the drain talking
about the weather for long periods of
time. So just briefly let me say we
don't need to avoid small talk. In fact,
it's a very important social ritual for
people who are strangers to each other,
people who haven't seen each other in a
long time. It's where we land and say,
"Oh, we're doing conversation now." The
mistake that people make is
they stay there too long. Way too long.
Any more than like one beat of, "Oh my
goodness, the weather's really warm.
It's like summer in California." Then
you need to make it more personal and
move up this topic pyramid towards
medium talk, deep talk quickly. Right?
So small talk is at the bottom. These
are topics anybody can talk about.
Tailored talk is more exciting, more
personalized, more relevant to your
interests. Deep talk is the peak of this
pyramid. Only we can talk about this
thing in this special way. Not every
conversation is bound to get to the deep
talk, but when it does, we should feel
very appreciative. It's one of the most
magical things about being humans. Um,
so we don't need to get to deep talk
with like the barista at Starbucks or
with your neighbor when they're taking
out their trash, but it does happen
sometimes and it's quite lovely. I think
I used to put girls off when I was 11
because I used to ask them like the
meaning of life too quickly on my mother
stole a Nokia phone.
>> Yeah.
>> And so they would stop texting back.
>> So I I think I learned early that like
some people just don't like
>> Well, the joke's on them now. Now you
get to do it for your for your life's
work. No, but I think we you were on to
something there. It's not that you asked
them about the meaning of life at all.
You asked it too quickly.
>> So getting it's about the pacing as we
move up here. Most people stay too long
at the bottom, but we also cannot jump
to the top often. You kind of have to do
the ritual of climbing to feel like you
get there in a natural way.
>> And is that where relationships are
built? Deep ones
>> for sure.
>> At the top
>> moments at the top probably, right? This
is where vulnerability takes you. Um,
often asking lots of questions,
especially follow-up questions, gets you
up the pyramid more quickly. So shall we
shall we shift to the A of the talk
framework because A is for
asking. Uh topics and asking are
intimately tied to each other. The most
common way that people switch topics is
by asking a question. So you can use
questions like what are you excited
about recently? Or what has been your
favorite guest to talk to? Or what have
you and your girlfriend done together
recently? You can you do that to switch
topics. Once you're on a topic, we use
follow-up questions to kind of dive
deeply and move up the topic pyramid.
Um,
>> so are you saying I should ask more
questions?
>> Yes.
>> Okay. Well, ask more than they're asking
me.
>> Maybe not you because you spend a lot of
time asking questions, but most people
the topline advice to make their
conversations better is to ask many more
questions.
asking. It sounds so simple and it's
almost like everybody already knows
that, but doing it in practice is quite
hard and it's a skill. And people who do
it well are more successful on romantic
dates. They're more successful in work
meetings. They're more successful as
collaborators. They're more successful
as entrepreneurs in getting funding. All
of it hinges on on question asking. So
the topline advice, just ask more
questions. At the very least, don't be a
zero question asker.
>> What happens to the fate of zero
question askers?
>> Oh, they're not they're not getting a
second date. They're not going to get
that funding. They're not they're not
learning enough about their partner to
enable them to succeed. If you go on a
first date and you're asking zero
questions, which like imagine that we've
all sort of been on that date probably,
you want to leave within 10 minutes.
When you're on a first date, you have so
much to learn about each other. M
>> you [clears throat]
have everything to learn about each
other. So if someone's not asking, it's
a real real real problem. Especially I
think this is a very especially good
hack for men um on heterosexual dates.
Often what they're getting wrong is that
they're not asking enough questions.
>> How'd you know this?
>> From data. [laughter]
>> From data.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, we have a thousand speed
dates and we uh the outcome is does your
the other person want to go on a second
date with you and we have transcripts.
It was an amazing study run by this
incredible research group at Stanford
about 10 years ago and you can just
measure it. Measure how many questions
they ask on each date. People who ask
more questions are enormously more
likely to get asked to on a second date.
So much. So, imagine you go on 20 first
dates and I say, "Okay, Stephen, you
just have to ask one extra question on
those 20 dates. If you do, you'll
convert another date into a second date
from just one question per date,
>> according to the data."
>> Yes. It's true for both men and women,
but it's particularly helpful for men
because they ask fewer questions on
average than women do.
>> Really?
>> Yeah.
>> Significantly less.
>> Yes. And the other funny gender effect
in the data is that men are just more
likely to agree to go on second dates.
They're less discerning in general.
But if they want if if men want to get
asked on the second date, just ask more
questions.
>> What is it me asking more questions
doing to the other person?
>> It makes them feel heard and like you
want to know their answer, that you're
interested in them. And so it signals
your interest, but also you learn what's
in their mind and what their experience
is, which gives arms you with more
information that to then ask more better
questions. So it's not just about asking
more, although that's a good start. It's
about asking f great follow-up
questions. The the the benefits of
question asking are almost entirely
driven by the power of follow-up
questions.
>> So what? Give me an example of asking a
great follow-up question.
>> We're on a date. It's uh there's food.
It's going really well. I've just shared
with you that I went on an amazing walk
down the Sunset Strip this morning.
>> And then I would say, "Really? Oh my
god, I've always wanted to go. Tell me
tell me about it. How was it?"
>> Oh, incredible. Um, so I got to this
point. I had never been here there
before. There was I had to decide, was I
going to veer off and go see um the
Marilyn Monroe apartment, which by the
way is right next to the Frank Lidd
Wright house. Oh my god. or was I going
to go a few blocks away was the um
Mendez brothers house.
>> Who's that?
>> The two brothers who killed their
parents.
>> Oh, on Netflix.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, wow. Okay.
>> So, I would literally right in between
and I was at this crossroads. Do I
choose Cultured? Do I choose Morbid
Curiosity? Um,
>> and which one did you choose?
>> I went with Cultured. I was too afraid
by [laughter]
myself.
>> You're so cute.
>> So, okay. So, we Okay, we're off our
date now. That was so fun. you were
asking such lovely questions and it
really helped to like cheer me on like
you actually wanted to hear this story.
>> Um even though it might like someone
else might have been like not that
interested and then you feel embarrassed
like oh I just shared a bunch of
vulnerable stuff. I was walking alone in
LA. I had morbid curiosity about these
two brothers and this story. Um, it's
very easy to make someone feel
invalidated in that moment, but
follow-up questions make me feel like,
oh, he wants to know more. He's coming
with me on this journey.
>> So, did I do the right thing then?
>> Yeah, you were doing great.
>> Okay. Yeah.
>> And what's the wrong thing to have done
for me to just just
>> Oh, imagine if I had been like, "Oh, I
went this on an amazing walk down the
Sunset Strip." And you said, "Oh, my
favorite restaurant on the strip is a
sushi place."
>> Oh, [__]
>> Um, I I went to this amazing restaurant
and I went to this amazing store. Uh,
yeah. They carried our mess. I bought an
amazing pair of boots. Um,
>> people do that all the time.
>> Constantly. So, this is called boomer
asking.
>> Boomer asking.
>> Not because of boomers. We love What are
you saying? It's for people of all ages.
Commit boomer. It's a boomerang.
>> Oh, okay.
>> So, I say to you, um,
>> I lost subscribers.
>> No, [laughter]
no, we love boomers. So, I say to you
like, Stephen, what's your favorite
restaurant?
>> Mr. Chows.
>> Oh, I've been to Mr. Chows. Last time I
went to Mr. house. I went with a whole
bunch of friends and I had a friend who
was really
>> all the time.
>> Yes. So, I've asked a question. You've
shared something with me that is such a
gift. Any sort of self-disclosure is
such a gift. And instead of saying, "Oh,
who did you go with?" or "What did you
order?" or "What is it like inside? How
did you like it?" Um, I bring it the
focus of the conversation right back to
myself.
>> People that do that don't know they do
it.
>> Correct. Because I will obviously, you
know, I we'll go for dinner or we'll
have, I don't know, 10 of my colleagues
there. And then sometimes I'll have one
particular colleague who is doing
exactly that.
>> Yes.
>> And they have no idea.
>> Don't you want to be like stop [__]
just like ask them about their thing?
They're new here. We're trying to make
them feel comfortable.
>> Even one follow-up question might be
enough. And so if you use this mindset
of like ask the next question before you
pull it back to yourself, it sometimes
can be enough. probably many more
follow-up questions is better, but even
just one where I was like, "Oh, who did
you go to Mr. Chows with?" and I let you
answer and I say, "Oh, I've been there,
too."
>> You can see it happening in their head
because you say the word Mr. Chow is
your favorite restaurant and they
immediately.
>> It makes sense that people do this. Our
brains are incredibly are wired to be
egocentric. We know all of our lived
experiences, our own, with 100%
accuracy. We lived it. It's all up here.
So, anything that we see or hear in our
conversations is of course going to
trigger all of these memories and
associations in your mind about your
lived experience. And it's such an enemy
of good conversation because it
constantly tugs you away from being
interested in the other person first.
The other thing I've seen in meetings,
which I've had to have a conversations
about historically, is when someone will
be talking and then someone's listening
going, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah."
And I know I'm like, "Oh my god, they've
got something to say." And they're like,
"Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah."
They'reing them out.
>> They're trying to them into silence so
that they can get their point across.
>> Yes.
>> And I've had to send messages in the
past to say, "By the way, you were
saying, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah." It
made it seem to an objective observer
like you weren't listening and actually
you were just trying to say something.
So just in the interest of your like,
you know, maybe
>> maybe don't
>> just don't say like
>> how do they respond to that? Oh, because
I didn't I constructed it more
>> tactfully
>> tactfully than I [laughter] just
described, but I thought about it a lot
and I just wanted to cuz I'd seen them
doing this 30 40 times in meetings.
>> Yeah.
>> And I don't think they realize how it's
perceived. Now you know how I feel
during so many conversations for so many
different reason. There are so many
things like that where you see other
people doing the dastardly
conversational thing and it's totally
understandable why they're excited. They
have a thing they want to say and it's
preventing them from actually engaging
with the person who's talking and and
what they're saying. All of these things
are understandable. I it's important to
come from a place of like of
non-judgment. Mhm.
>> It's because our brains were built to
wander, not focus on another person,
>> because we're deeply egocentric beings
and we focus on our own perspective.
>> Both of those things hold us back from
really being able to engage with someone
else. I want to go back to your thing of
like a 10 out of 10 likability. that
those are the little things, the little
um death by a thousand cuts to your
likability are these things where it's
like you're not able to actually really
focus on someone else and really engage
with what they're saying and ask
follow-up questions and then later in
the conversation call back to something
they said earlier because you're just
that clever. Um are there so much stands
in the way of of doing that. In that
particular example I'm thinking about, I
started to get
negative feedback from people that
worked with this person. And I noticed
one day the negative feedback was, I
don't think they're even listening to
me.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> cuz they're not
>> cuz they weren't really listening. And
so the minute I got the feedback was the
minute I thought, you know what,
Stephen, you've you've watched this
happen. You know, it's objectively true.
You owe it because you're this person's
report to have a conversation with them
about it because it's getting in the way
of their success. The the fascinating
thing for me is if I plot everybody I
know and work with on an axis of like
self-awareness as it relates to their
communication. Yeah.
>> Some people are just they kind of just
got have it. Y
>> and then some people are on the other
end of this spectrum where there's like
no apparent self-awareness of of like
how they're coming across
>> and they're so talented and so hardwork
but this one thing of like their
communication self-awareness is honestly
in some cases the single thing the
single gravitational force on their
career trajectory.
>> Yes.
>> And like can people change or is it just
like a genetic thing?
>> They can. Let first let me address there
are pros and cons to being at both ends
of that spectrum. If you are
>> too hypervigilant and too self-aware, it
can be distracting. It might mean that
you're sort of people pleasing too,
which can lead to burnout and
exhaustion. If you're at this lack of
self-awareness end, of course, it's
going to be a real problem. And so, I
love teaching and coaching people at
that end because you can become more
self-aware. So many of my students at
Harvard come into the course and that's
how they are.
>> What you mean?
>> They are not aware of what their
strengths and weaknesses are. They don't
know what they're doing right and wrong.
They just know they either hate
conversation or aren't good at it. And
so just by going through this talk
course, they become much more sort of
cleareyed and open to the fact that
conversation is a skill that matters
profoundly. not in a sort of soft skill
fuzzy way but as a in a quantifiable way
that impacts everything that matters to
them like as like a bottom line almost
as like an economic value to them and so
just having their eyes open to the fact
that like this is a skill and a skill
they need to get better at even if I
don't see them getting massively better
in the course of three months it means
that they are likely to get better at it
over the longer term because now they
know now they get it and now they know
that they aren't great at it yet. The
world of business looks entirely
different today than it did 15 years
ago. Back then, building a brand meant
having huge budgets, warehouses, office
space, and lots and lots of stuff. But
now, you can start a business with your
laptop, an idea, and the right tools.
And I would know more so than anybody
else because that's exactly what I did.
Shopify is one of our long-standing
sponsors on this show, and they're a
brand I often refer people to when
they're starting their businesses
because it's a tool that contains many
more tools within itself. And when
you're starting out, everything is
everywhere. It's messy, and it's
confusing. So having everything in the
same place is incredibly useful. Shopify
puts store design, payments, inventory,
shipping, and even AI tools all in one
place. And you can sell directly from
your website or on social media
essentially wherever your customers
spend their time. It's truly a brilliant
business tool. So if you want to give it
a go, head to shopify.com/bartlet
and sign up for your $1 per month trial
period. That's shopify.com/bartlet.
Are there anything else that you know we
talked about death by a thousand cuts as
it relates to being a 10 out of 10
conversationalist and like li like li
like li like li like li like li like li
like li like li like li like likeable
person are there any of these other
small things that we do which are
harming us but are tiny that most people
don't know they're doing
>> let's move to K as I'm moving along in
this framework um we're skipping L for
now which we would never skip L forever
K is for kindness um often we are all
taught this virtue of kindness when
we're children and spend the rest of our
lives sort of falling short of actually
doing it in practice.
>> I've forever been obsessed with this
idea of what are like people who are
actually kind, what are they thinking
about and how are they interacting with
other people? What kinds of choices are
they making? How do they talk to other
people? And so when you say death by a
thousand cuts, there are these sort of
mistakes that we make in the
respectfulness of our language that
undermine our actual kindness to other
people. making sure you use someone's
name. You gave this example and the one
out of 10 is like use the wrong name.
That is really meaningful. You need to
know people's names and use them
correctly and with appropriate
formality, right? Sometimes it's
wonderful to say like, "Hey, honey." And
sometimes you need to say, "Um, it's
nice to meet you, Dr. Brooks." Right?
Like it you need to be able to read
that. Um there is this paper um where
they studied conversations between
police officers and citizens in Oakland
actually close to here in normal traffic
stops. So when police pulled over
citizens and walked up to the car and
said um you were speeding, you know, and
they used body cam footage and got all
the transcripts from these interactions
and then measured the respectfulness of
the language that the police officers
were using.
There are some really, you know, not
surprising but terrible findings that
police officers were using less
respectful language towards black
citizens compared to white citizens. But
sort of more uh broadly speaking, the
interactions where they were using more
respectful language went better. There
were less conflicts. There were they w
they drive away without further
infractions. So the tiny choices we make
in our language and the language of
respect is varies along like hundreds of
features of language and it's a very
gradient concept but they have a real
impact on how these interactions go.
When we think about sort of like things
like systemic bi racial bias that's it
comes from that kind of stuff. That's
where it leaks out is in the language we
use with each other. So we can all learn
to use more respectful language.
>> Do you
think much about
how our emotional state is impacting our
ability to accomplish any of these
things? Cuz I think, you know, the days
where I'm least likely to be kind are
the days where I haven't slept.
>> Yeah.
>> I should probably be avoiding all
conversations that day.
>> It's really I think one of the biggest
things I've learned from all of this
work is that conversation is remarkably
effortful and it requires quite a bit of
energy. Even if you know how to be a
good conversationalist, often we don't
have the energy to actually do it. Oh, I
don't have the energy to brainstorm
topics. I don't have the energy to
continue asking follow-up questions. I'm
going to let my egoentrism take over and
boomer ask till the sun comes down goes
down.
>> Not like boomers.
>> Not boomers.
>> Difference of opinion here. [laughter]
>> I'm going to accidentally use
disrespectful language and not repair
that, not correct it. That's kind of
what keeps me up at night is that human
beings do have limitations. We are
limited in time. We're limited in
energy. Our brains are not
supercomputers. And so in practice,
people who are great communicators will
often fall short of their own hopes
because they don't have the energy to do
it.
>> I think Bnee Brown said to me that when
she comes home and she's out of energy,
she'll just say to her partner, "Listen,
I'm on 10% today, so I can't deal with
this now." And what talk about
self-awareness, boy, if you can do that,
if you can say and you have sturdy
enough relationships at work and at home
that you could say, "Dude, I'm like a
two out of 10. You got to cut me a break
today."
>> It would be tremendously helpful. It
requires quite a bit of self-awareness
to recognize that you're at a two out of
10.
>> And a lot of grace from the people
around you, which means that you're
going to have to give them grace in
response at some point. Um, that's what
good relationships are.
>> And the L
>> L. Shall we put them in the correct
order? Yeah. V A L K.
>> L is for levity. So, we've talked a bit
about difficult conversations and how
they can so easily get overheated. When
you think about chats that go off the
rails, it's quite easy to think of
hostile conflict, difficult
conversations, because they're very
salient. They're very memorable. There's
might be shouting. There's going to be
hurt feelings, defensiveness. The more
common enemy of conversation is actually
boredom and disengagement. So yes, do we
get annoyed with each other? Absolutely.
But almost every conversation has stints
of disengagement where people aren't
interested. And so levity is humor and
warmth to help us avoid disinterest and
boredom.
And levity is important for sort of
happiness and engagement sake itself.
You know, it matters that we're enjoying
our time together, but maybe even more
profoundly,
if we are not leaning towards each other
and interested in what the other person
is saying, we can't achieve any of our
other goals. Good conversation requires
mutual engagement. So, if I'm bored and
my mind is wandering, which happens a
lot because I have attentional issues.
It happens to a lot of people a lot. Um,
the human mind wanders uh 25% of the
time during conversation. So, it's quite
common.
If your mind is wandering and you're not
engaged with each other, then you can't
do anything else either. Persuasion,
making decisions together,
brainstorming, connecting, um, none of
it. So, the L is very important because
it makes things fun and enjoyable, but
it's also important because we need to
stay here with each other and not
disengage.
>> What if you're not a warm person?
[laughter]
>> It's so fun.
>> I've been accused of being racist. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. People say to me, People say
to me a lot like you're very serious.
I'm like, really? I'm I think I come
across as serious sometimes.
>> I think you may come across as serious.
I would I think but you do come across
as very warm. And so that's an important
distinction.
>> You're using flattery. I've seen that
when you're confessing.
>> I'm not I'm giving I'm giving very
direct
flattery. [laughter]
Flattery here. High relational. I'm
going to you.
>> So there's levity is two parts. It's
humor and warmth. And I always start
this part of my class at Harvard by
saying to my students, if you're not
funny and you think you never will be,
it's okay [laughter]
because I don't think I'm going to be
the one to make you funny within the
span of two months if you are a deeply
serious unfunny person. Other people
believe that you can get funnier over
time. We can talk about that in a in a
moment. Um, what I do deeply believe is
that pe anyone can be more warm. And so
warmth moves include anything expressing
gratitude. I'm so grateful for your time
today. I'm so grateful for you engaging
with the content of my work, flattery,
giving compliments, just shifting
topics. So if you can get better at
sensing when people are getting bored
with a topic and getting more courageous
and assertive about switching more
frequently can be very, very helpful for
keeping the conversation sort of
bubbling along. Call backs.
Call backs are any reference back to
something that you've talked about
previously.
>> They're total magic.
It shows that you were listening to
someone earlier in the conversation,
maybe even earlier in your relationship,
like a month ago. If I can call back to
something we talked about, it shows I
heard you. I was thinking about what you
said. I was able to retain it in my mind
and I'm clever enough to reference back
to it now. And often it has this really
amazing quality where if I bring it up
again, it's funny because you're like,
"Oh [__] that's super clever."
>> Um, often pe a lot of people ask me,
"How do we end conversations?" Well, and
I have two pieces of advice there. I'm
going to bring this back to callbacks.
One is nobody knows when to end
conversations. It's the final topic
switch. It's the final coordination
choice. There's no way to know. There is
no right answer. Um, so it's better to
just end it. like be assertive, walk
away rather than hemming and hawing and
feeling bad and embarrassed about it.
The second piece of advice is that it's
a great time to try a call back. The
very last beat of the conversation, you
can say, "And I hope you have a great
time with your girlfriend this weekend."
Right? Like whatever they they had
mentioned, "Oh, I'm going to go we're
going to go to see this movie. I hope
you have a great time at the movie this
weekend."
>> Right? Showing that like, "Oh, I heard
you 30 minutes ago when you told me this
thing." That can help to smooth the exit
ramp away.
I find it really useful to give people
my email address to end a conversation.
>> That's so interesting.
>> It just ends the conversation
immediately.
>> Yeah.
>> Someone will come up to me and say,
"Hey, I've got this business idea I want
to pitch." And then they'll start
pitching.
>> And if I go, you know, send me here's my
email. The convers and I shake their
hand. The conversation ends immediately.
>> Do you feel it is dismissive?
>> Maybe.
However, in the context of like being in
the gym
>> and I'm like mid set
>> and someone comes over and says and I
go, "Oh, here's my email. Here's if you
want to." It seems to end the
conversation and it feels to be like,
"Please help me here."
>> What would be a better way to
>> I know. I think that's quite good
because it it could be perceived as a
little dismissive, but that person in
the gym is going to be like, "Yeah, he
probably doesn't want to talk about my
business while he's, you know, lifting."
And you're opening the door to them.
You're saying I really would love to
receive an email from you. Um,
>> it is my real email as well. I'm not
giving out a fake one.
>> Yeah, exactly. Yeah, you should feel
like a jerk if you were giving out a
[laughter] fake.
>> I do read them.
>> Yeah, exactly. Um, depending on your
tolerance. I I also don't I think most
people wouldn't be excited about having
a deep conversation with a stranger at
the gym. And I think giving yourself
grace for that is also helpful. Like it
doesn't make you a bad person. I think
of an important thing that we take from
the book and this course is like talking
more is not always the answer.
>> Often it's not often it's important.
It's these low informational goals,
right? Like protecting your time,
protecting your mental health. Some
people, most people are under social.
Loneliness is a real problem. Um they
don't have enough friends. They're not
connected enough. But some people
probably are overconnected and your
social portfolio is too large and
there's too many people who need too
many things from you. And so thinking
carefully about what are your strategies
to sort of stave off over conversation
is quite worthwhile.
>> And is this introvert ambvert extrovert
stuff real?
>> It's a great question. People have
preferences about what makes them feel
connected to other people. Some people
would love to go to that party with a
hundred famous people. Tell me about
Zara and my team said that the thing she
wants to do on a Friday after a really
really really really really busy week is
she wants to go to a busy coffee shop
and be around loads of people. And I was
like what? She goes yeah it recharges
me. I'm like what are you like
psychopath?
>> And then there's me who after the same
week all I want to do is be in a dark
cold room.
>> Yeah.
>> On my own.
>> Yep. Totally. And both of those are fair
and fine. And knowing that about
yourself is really helpful. I don't know
as that relates to introversion and
extroversion as much as like where what
are your preferences for conversation.
It's both about how frequently who do
you want to be interacting with and what
topics are exciting. Is she going to
that coffee shop and talking about work
still or is she like no I can't wait to
talk about this weird other stuff to try
and get work off my mind.
>> But there's those people though in
society we all know them that are like
around people they just become like a
social butterfly.
>> Yeah.
>> They like to talk loads. They're really
engaged. They're energized by it.
>> Sure. And then there's us lot who are
just drained by that stuff. And I look
at these people and go I'm almost
jealous of them. I go I don't know how
you do that.
>> Sometimes
for sure whether you when you get
excited around lots of people can be a
huge advantage because we need to do
that sometimes. I actually think
possibly a better indicator of
introversion might be if you went into a
party or you were in a group
conversation and it was super awkward.
Nobody's talking. Do you feel like it's
your job to fix it?
Extroverts would be like, "That's my
number one job in life.
I am the one. Don't worry. I'm here. I'm
here to save the awkwardness."
Introverts are often like, "I'm going to
go loiter by the guacamole. It is this
is not my problem, and I don't want no
part of it."
>> Yeah.
>> So, sometimes it's not even about the
number of people that are around, but
how you're managing conversation. I just
put a new quiz on my website that helps
people figure out what are your
preferences. What are your natural
habits in tricky situations like that
and it gives you a sort of typo type?
What type are you? Do you tend to sort
of be avoidant? Do you tend to approach
and try and fix things? And then
strategies to use
>> and what do you see in terms of
percentages there and different?
>> We're going to find out. It's new. It's
new. Yeah. Yeah. We're just launching it
so I'm going to find out.
>> And does it have classifications in
terms of like
>> Yeah.
>> How many classifications?
>> Yeah. So it's only three types that you
could be um with this quiz and then sort
of like strategies that whatever your
type is this is going to help you in
terms of topics asking levity and
kindness
>> and what are the three categories one
one could be
>> so some one person could be sort of an
approach person who's like and I guess
probably correlated with extraversion
we'll find out um if it's awkward and
quiet you're the one that wants to jump
in and fix it there are pros and cons to
this too if you jump in And
you might say things or do things that
you don't actually aren't very proud of
>> and might lower your value.
>> Correct.
>> Yeah.
>> There are avoiders who are like, "No,
thank you. I'm just going to I'm going
to stay here, but I'm going to not say
anything." And then there are people who
are like, "I'm out of here. This party
sucks." Right? Like they're the exit the
exit people.
>> I feel attacked. [laughter]
>> No, but I I you know, that's interesting
because is it true that some people who
overtalk are less respected? Can you
overt talk? I I had this um this thought
many years ago based on again
observations I'd seen in boardrooms that
I'd been in and I'd see 12 of my team
members in a boardroom trying to come to
an idea for a campaign we were doing.
>> Yeah. And I noticed that one particular
person who I shame many years ago in our
New York office would talk so much and
too I would say too much to the extent
that the next time they spoke I could
see everybody in the room not paying
attention and discounting it before it
would come. So I came up with this idea.
I was like I think we all have a
contribution score. Yeah.
>> Like a credit score.
>> Love that. And it's based on how
thoughtful and valuable our previous
contributions have been.
>> Yeah.
>> And what I would see is with this
particular person, I shall call her
Katie,
>> the minute she spoke, um halfway through
her first sentence, I could see the
person sat next to her basically just
pre-rebutling it.
>> Yeah.
>> Like pre- dismissing it.
>> Yeah. And then on the contrary, there's
another particular person in our in our
Manchester office back in the day who
spoke so little that the minute they
spoke, it was like the room fell silent
and we all just swung our heads over to
them because you're like, "Here comes a
really good take." So I thought
everybody has a contribution score
protect yours.
>> Yes. So group conversation is incredibly
complicated and one of the most
difficult things is so obvious is just
how do we share airtime? Uh there are
always going to be pe people who have
high power tend to take up more airtime
just naturally. It's something that high
power people need to fight against
because it's not productive
>> and it [clears throat] makes lower power
people feel like they're not welcome to
join. But then if you just look at
airtime balance the person who's
dominating the airtime that is not
productive, right? Like especially if
they're not the expert. Okay, that's
where things get problematic. You can
imagine a balance where okay there might
be a group where we are all dying to
hear we need to talk about aerospace
engineering and only one out of the 10
of us is an aerospace engineer. I want
to hear that guy talk for 45 minutes and
I want to learn everything I possibly
can
>> in that in [clears throat] that time.
The it becomes problematic when the
person dominating the airtime is not the
sole expert or maybe not an expert at
all.
There's another piece to this and I love
your idea of a contribution score where
talking is not the only way to add value
to a group. There are so many roles that
people play. There are timekeepers.
There's someone who's writing on the
board at the same time. Often the person
holding the pen ends up being the most
powerful person because they're making
diagrams and taking notes and they
decide what is worthy of being up on the
board. There are people who keep the
agenda. So, we're saying, "Okay, here
are the topics we want to talk about.
here are the goals we came in with. We
want to make this decision. I'd like to
note that we haven't moved to the
pasture where we're going to make the
decision, right? The person who is sort
of facilitating the meeting becomes very
valuable. So there's all kinds of so
there's goals, there's roles in a group,
and then there's the soul the warmth of
it all. The other thing in line with
that that I've noticed from people with
a low contribution score in businesses
that I've built, whatever is they're bad
switchers
>> and it's it appears to be linked. What I
mean by a bad switcher is the group will
be talking about
>> I see. Yes. Yes. They're not they're
unwilling to go where the group wants to
go and they come keep coming back to
their thing or their like
>> Yeah. or something completely unrelated.
Yeah. As if they just needed to say
something. Yeah.
>> And it just it veers the group off the
subject. So, the group are talking
about, let's just say we're talking
about a campaign we're doing for
Starbucks and we're saying, "Do you
think we should do uh an event in
Manhattan?" And because it it almost
seems like they can't not talk. They'll
say,
"I went on a holiday to Manhattan once
and it was um and it was uh it was voted
in the top 15 on the Forbes list of best
places to go." [laughter] And you just
go and you just look and go, "What?
That's not what
>> What if that person, let me play Devil's
Adam for a second. What if they made a
joke about New York that was actually
funny? Slightly off topic,
>> great,
>> but actually funny." And then you get
right back into
>> right,
>> it's great. So it's not about in that
case it's not about bad switching. It's
about egoentrism. You're not reading the
room well. You're not serving the goals
of the group.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. Levity, moments of levity often
are about briefly switching to an
adjacent topic and then switching back.
>> Yeah.
>> And it's actually worth that side bar
because it's fun and everybody's like,
"Oh, thank god we don't have to like
circle the drain on New York for a
million more minutes." Um the problem is
this guy is chiming in being like let me
tell you about the time I went to New
York.
>> Yeah. And and and the the collective are
trying to go in one direction. I
actually think this about this a lot in
the context of podcasting.
I would hate to have a co-host
>> and it would be very hard.
>> It would be so hard because in my mind
there's a particular direction I'm I'm
going in.
>> Yes.
>> And if they weren't aligned with the
direction I'm going in, it's rough. I
mean, you see it sometimes with on
podcast with a co-host where they're
going in a direction talking about
immigration
>> and they say like, "But wait, wait,
wait, just one thing, one quick thing
before we move on." And then you go
back,
>> you go to a different direction, like,
"Oh my gosh, oh no." And as a viewer,
you're like, "Oh, you are making
progress towards the crux of the issue."
But this,
>> but I think that's what I'm talking
about. Like, how would you make sure
you're moving in the right direction as
the group?
>> Yes. And this is a great example because
we we often think of one-on-one
conversation is the same task as a
threeperson group. As soon as a third
person pulls up a chair, whether it's a
podcast co-host or a friend at a bar,
that task, it's a categorically
different task now because that third
person has the power to take you on
sidebars.
>> It's no longer being co-created
intimately between two minds. All of a
sudden, we get into this like
coordination kuruffle that
>> can be very, very frustrating. I suspect
that's part of why you don't like groups
actually is that you like so strongly
prefer one-on-one.
>> Yeah, I think that's true. I think
that's true. I prefer one-on-one. I
prefer the depth and
>> small talk feels like really
disingenuous sometimes.
>> Can I push you? Do you think it's about
control?
Because imagine you had a co-host. The
problem that you the reason you'd feel
so frustrated with that, yes, it's about
the flow of the conversation getting to
a magical moment. It's also like you had
to like relinquish control to someone
else in that moment.
>> It's interesting because um I was with a
colleague of mine the other day and we
were interviewing some people.
>> Mhm.
>> So we just say we were interviewing
three people.
>> Yeah.
>> The first interview I told her to lead
the interview and I enjoyed the
interview because I could watch her go
in her direction. Felt very like a
straight line. The second interview I
didn't say anything and what happened is
I started asking them a question. Now
I'm sat there asking this guy a question
because I'm trying to figure out this
particular answer. So I'm kind of like
circling this issue, not kind of giving
it away and I'm getting one step closer
and another step closer and then my
colleague comes in and asks a completely
different QUESTION
>> AND YOU'RE LIKE
>> AND I'M LIKE, "OH NO, I WAS LIKE SO
CLOSE TO figuring out this thing about
them that I suspect is a red flag." So
like, and then she um came and asked the
question and then I'm like, "Oh my god,
no. Now I have to go right back to this
completely different subject and stop
>> and you're never going to get your
answer." So anyway, afterwards I had a
conversation with her and I said,
"Listen, when we do interviews, I think
we need to clarify who's leading."
>> That's right.
>> I'll sit and listen. When you do it,
then when I do it, you sit, you know?
Yep.
>> And so I think that's part of it.
>> That's part of the roles thing I was
talking about before too, right? Like
there's this roles of like you're
scribing, you're keeping time or
whatever, but also being having clarity
about like who's the topic leader here.
>> Yeah.
>> And clarity, especially in a group of
three, can be incredibly helpful. Uh and
lack of it is chaotic.
>> A nightmare.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> What is the most important thing we
haven't talked about as it relates to
likability and having great
conversations and dislikability if
that's a word?
>> I want to distance ourselves from
likability. I think likability is one
very narrow goal of good conversation.
>> What other things do people care about?
Do you know why I use certain words?
>> Tell me.
>> Is because the audience have told me.
>> Should I tell you what they care about?
>> Please.
>> They care about dealing with
narcissists.
>> Good. They care about um how to have
different
>> because they struggle with it,
>> I guess. So, yeah.
>> Yeah. It's an interesting label. It's
very accusatory of other people.
>> Yeah.
>> Because I think everybody thinks the
person they disagree with is a
narcissist. It's like a nice way to like
just
>> So, a reframe of it is they struggle
with disagreement.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> The other thing is they care a lot about
um difficult conversations. It's the
bane of their life. They struggle with
them. They avoid them. They think if
they could only get good at it, then
they'd be everything they want to be.
>> Yeah.
>> They care about being liked.
>> Y
>> um they care about avoiding things that
make them disliked that they're unaware
of that they're doing.
>> I would say
and I I guess the the fifth one is they
they care a lot about persuasion
remarkably. And Julian Treasure, who did
that TED talk about speaking told me
this, people don't really care much
about listening.
>> And he told me he did two
>> because they don't know. It's funny.
It's it's so interesting to hear you say
those things. To me, those are all very
related to each other and revealing that
people don't have great instincts about
their strengths and weaknesses and
what's hard and easy about conversation.
persuasion, difficult conversations,
thinking other people are narcissists,
um, and being liked. They're all related
to mismanaging conflict and disagreement
and and have struggling to manage
moments of difficulty. Well, the social
landscape of all conversation is so much
broader than people realize, I think,
because there were so narrowly focused
on these very noticeable,
memorable, salient moments
of disagreement that we're like, "Oh
[__] that's hard." And we got mad and
it ruined and we broke up.
>> Of course,
>> but you're also super boring like 80% of
the time. [laughter]
And also, you're you're not really
listening to other people. You're
missing so many opportunities to
actually learn from people because
you're not listening. You're not asking
enough follow-up questions. You're not
asking enough questions at all. You're
talk spending too much time talking
about yourself.
>> Like, obviously, this is what people
like because
>> the thing that I will remember the most
is the conflict, the issue, the problem,
the emotional situation. Yeah.
>> People don't think they're boring. Like
on
>> it's it's a it's hard to it's such a
it's a much harder thing to notice.
>> Yeah.
>> And it's a much harder thing to get
feedback about because no one's going to
be like, "Hey, bro, you're boring."
>> Yeah. And if the things I'm interested
in, by way of me being interested, I
think they're interesting.
>> Yeah.
>> So, I think that I'm just making stuff
up Pokmon. I think that's the most
important interesting thing in the
world.
>> And let me now tell you everything I
know about Pokmon. Yeah.
>> It's like this. It's like this
misunderstanding of what it the purpose
of conversation is not to say things we
know at other people.
>> It's about finding things we're both
interested in and then learning
everything that you know about that.
Like now I'm just going to like take a
journey through your brain of everything
that you think and feel about this thing
that we're both interested in. And on
that journey we might land in this
magical place where I'm learning stuff
from you. You find me quite charming.
We're laughing together and we feel seen
and known and understood. But it's
definitely not going to be me telling
you about Pokemon if you're deeply
disinterested in it.
>> And there's just the the difference
between being interesting and
interested. We think that
>> Yes.
>> Like I think that the game of being
interesting is to show you
>> life is not about walking through life
giving like mini speeches or like mini
TED talks, right? It's about convers
conversation is interactive. It's
co-created with two independent minds.
Entrepreneurs make this mistake a lot
too. They they may be driven by, you
know, Dragon's Den and Shark Tank. You
feel like it's not your fault. You feel
like you need to stand up there and like
pitch your idea and in order to be
successful, you give the most compelling
public speech about it. Most
entrepreneurs or business owners
actually are talking to investors and
colleagues and potential partner
strategic partners in conversation. And
so before you get to the point where
you're like, "Let me tell you about my
amazing company, you need to ask them a
million questions and get to know them
and understand what their pain points
are and how many kids they have and what
they actually care about. So if you're
lucky, the thing that and product or
service you have actually fills that
need and be like, "Guess what? I have
this amazing thing for you. Wouldn't you
love to invest in it?
>> Andrew Bustamante said something to me
about this. He said um he's a spy for
the CIA for about 10 years and he said
one of the things you you have to train
yourself to understand as a spy is that
there's a difference between your
perspective which is like what I see
right now. Yes. And in my perspective I
see a mirror over there and there's an
award and I see some things behind you.
I see two cameras over your shoulder. I
see that. There's a wooden beam over
there behind you by the way. And there's
like some green tape above there. And
then there's your perception. Yes.
>> Your perception is all this [__] Like I
couldn't see any of this stuff
>> behind me.
>> That's right.
>> And he said like as a spy, they train
you to sit in the other person's
perception because if you can't do that,
you're never going to be able to
persuade them. Like you have to realize
that actually you sat in front of me
have a different brain.
>> And the only I can guess what's in your
brain. I can guess. Maybe there's a
mirror behind me. Maybe there's art.
Maybe there's just a wall. I can guess
based on what I see, based on what I've
experienced. We're in a room. So, I'm
going to guess there's some sort of wall
behind me and not out into the street.
But we're really bad at guessing. Tons
of psychological research suggests that
human beings are terrible at using our
own experiences to guess other people's
perceptual realities. Guess your
perspective. So, instead of guessing, I
need to ask you, hey, Stephen, what do
you see behind me? I need to ask you
directly, how does that make you feel?
Why do you think it was built that way?
What do you feel when you're sitting
here? Why do you think it's
asymmetrical? Why are why do I see books
but you don't? The only way to truly
understand another person's mind is to
ask them and to talk about it.
>> I asked my assistant Sophie to find me a
reliable security system for my new
place in LA. What she discovered is that
most available options have the same
issue. They're reactive and only take
action after someone has broken into
your house. Simply Safe, who sponsors
this show, has a completely different
approach. If someone's lurking near your
home or office, their AI powered cameras
detect them. Then human agents who act
like a remote security guard take
action, speaking directly to the
intruder, letting them know they're
being watched on camera and if
necessary, triggering a siren or
spotlight to scare them off. Or they can
call 911 for police dispatch. This
immediate response is why I went with
Simply Safe. No one else approaches
security in the same way. They have no
long-term contracts or hidden fees, so
you can cancel at any time. They also
have a 60-day money back guarantee. My
audience can save 50% on a simplysafe
home security system at
simplysafe.com/doac.
That is simplysafe.com/doac.
There's no safe like a simplysafe. You
know, every once in a while you come
across a product that has such a huge
impact on your life that you'd probably
describe as a gamecher. And I would say
for about 35 to 40% of my team, they
would currently describe this product
that I have in front of me called Ketone
IQ, which you can get at ketone.com
as a game changer. But the reason I
became a co-owner of this company and
the reason why they they now are a
sponsor of this podcast is because one
day when I came to work, there was a box
of this stuff sat on my desk. I had no
idea what it was. Lily in my team says
that this company have been in touch. So
I went upstairs, tried it, and quite
frankly, the rest is history. in terms
of my focus, my energy levels, how I
feel, how I work, how productive I am.
Game changer. So, if you want to give it
a try, visit ketone.com/stephven
for 30% off. You'll also get a free gift
with your second shipment. And now you
can find Ketone IQ at Target stores
across the United States, where your
first shot is completely free of charge.
So when I go into a business meeting or
I'm trying to persuade someone to I
don't know join our company whatever at
the beginning of that conversation
are there key questions that I should be
using to understand their ideology like
understand the the hero's journey that
they they have in their head of them
>> you should ask more and listen to their
answers and then ask the next question.
>> What kind of questions?
>> A good one that I like to start with is
what are you excited about lately?
>> Okay.
>> Right. It's [clears throat] very
revealing of what there's is top of
mind. You asked me that question today.
Loved it.
>> It's it also implies that you knew what
they were excited about previously. So,
it can help you kind of revisit that a
bit over time. Whatever there has an
answer to that question, even if they're
terribly depressed, they're excited
about something. Maybe the prospect of
making a friend.
>> Um, and anything that someone is excited
about means you can stay on that topic
and ask more. Oh, well, what what could
I do to help you do that? Um, right?
Like we we can just carried carry on
down that path.
>> When I asked you that question three
hours ago, you said two things. You said
about putting curriculum into schools,
but you also talked about men and their
conversations. And you said you had done
a study recently. Yeah.
>> About men. This is me remembering what
you said. This is back.
>> Loving it. Loving it.
>> Thank you for that. But men and their
conversations. You said you've done an
interesting study recently which I can't
go into the details about, but it was
revealing about male friendship.
>> Yes.
>> Are men bad at communication? If so, why
are we bad at communication?
>> Conversation's hard. When you look under
the hood, it's looks more like a train
wreck.
>> You're being diplomatic
>> than I will be. I'll be less diplomatic
in a moment. Um, it looks more like a
train wreck than a sort of tidy script
that you would see on a TV show. It's
messy. We make mistakes. We have to
repair it. We need to check our
understanding. We need to make
apologies. constantly. So, perfection is
not the goal for anyone in conversation.
When you look at gender differences,
there are real gender differences. Um,
we know that in friendship, women tend
to actually face each other and talk to
each other. Men tend to do activities,
right? Shouldertoshoulder. We're
fishing, we're playing basketball, we're
in fantasy sports on our computers.
This project that I did recently, I
always spend lots of time analyzing
transcripts at very large scale. This
project though, I was observing
conversations live. And for whatever
reason, that was much more visceral than
what I usually do as a scientist. And it
was all men meeting other men for the
first time and sort of trying to forge
friendships. And what was so hard to
watch is that they don't they really
struggled with vulnerability.
Vulnerability is such a key component of
friendship. We friendship
[clears throat] experts say you need
consistency. So interacting
repeatedly, positivity, having fun
together, but maybe most importantly
vulnerability. Like sharing not only
your feelings with each other, but like
what are you struggling with? What are
your what are your hopes and dreams?
What are your goals? What do you want to
get out of this? It was so maddening to
watch these men have hundreds of
conversations and like none of them
asked those questions or talked about
those things with each other. As a
woman, it was it was almost shocking
because it's sort of like what women
would probably talk about within the
first three minutes of the conversation.
And I couldn't believe I was like, "Wow,
this is really this really seems like a
massive difference." And I worry that
large scale the leap from being
basketball buddies or fantasy sports
buddies into vulnerable conversation
feels so scary and risky that men are
unable to make the leap. And that's a
huge part of what's holding back men
from having meaningful friendships. And
we know that loneliness is so much worse
for men than for women.
>> And they have way less friends.
>> Yes. Yes. I Ridiculous proportion of men
say report having zero close friends.
40% potentially.
>> Wow.
>> It's quite troubling. And I think that I
think their conversation skills and
courage. Listen, everything that we've
talked about, choosing good topics,
shifting to new topics when they get
boring, asking good questions, asking
follow-up questions, finding moments of
levity, um apologizing, listening, all
of these things take a surprising amount
of courage and confidence.
And it feels like this thing for men who
have been socialized to believe that
vulnerability is a sign of weakness. It
feels like it's like almost takes too
much courage for them to make that leap
in their relationships. And it's quite
problematic.
>> Men are 400% more likely to say they
have no one to turn to in a time of
crisis. Um half of men say they are
unsatisfied with their friendships.
Men's number of close friends has
dropped by 30 to 40% since 1990.
>> Men come to rely on their in
heterosexual relationships come to rely
on their partner for emotional
fulfillment and support. Women do not.
So when you know a woman a female spouse
dies, men have to remarry to fill that
void. They don't have that friendship.
When a
husband dies, the woman has her friends
to support her. So, how can I how can I
make more friends as a man?
>> I think it's really one conversation at
a time. The power you have is sign as an
individual is signaling to other men,
hey, let's take this courageous leap.
Like, here's a question you can ask.
What have you been struggling with
recently?
What do you hope to achieve? But what
have you been what kind of thing have
you been thinking about that you haven't
shared with anyone before?
>> And in the study you did, what kind Give
me a flavor of how the conversation
sounded. Hey man, you want to get Oh,
this this hot dog is gross.
Yeah, it's really gross.
Yeah, this is Yeah, I don't like the
food. [laughter]
I'm going to go take a nap. It's like
narrating what's happening around you.
Sometimes they'd be like, "Where are you
from?"
Or,
>> and then that would turn into a
narration.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, I love Chicago. It has that team.
Uh, I hate the Chicago Bears. Uh, oh
yeah, I remember when so and so played
there. Then you devolve into the sports
talk, which can be important, but you
can you move a step beyond and be like,
did you ever feel vulnerable when you
played football in high school? Right?
Like or like what did you struggle with
in terms of sports? Why didn't you play
college sports? I whatever wherever the
whatever the topic is, you can take that
next step to make it actually personal
and vulnerable and interesting so that
you walk away one step closer to having
an actual friend and not just someone
you say things you know to.
>> I did a talk in Canary War for a couple
of week couple of maybe a year ago and a
kid stood up in the front row. You got
to bear in mind there's 500 young I say
young I mean probably 21. They're all
working in this part of London called
Canary Wolf where you kind of your first
job after university. 500 people in this
room. Kid stands up front row says, "Hi,
my question is um I
want to know how to make friends."
>> Mhm.
>> And it it was shocking to me because I
could see 499 of his peers stood next to
him.
>> Mhm.
>> But he had the guts to stand up in front
of all these people and say, "Hi,
Stephen. My question is, how do you make
friends?"
>> It's a fabulous question, isn't it? If
he had asked you that question, he might
be listening now.
>> Hello, friend. Starts with hello. And
the number of times that I have run
conversation exercises as part of my
class and the students at the end of
that very first session say this is the
first time I've turned to the person
next to me and actually talked to them.
It's like every time I do that first
session, thank you. Thank you for the
opportunity to turn the re giving us a
reason to turn to each other and
actually talk get to know my classmates.
[clears throat]
>> Even that takes tremendous courage
especially if there are norms of not
doing of coming in sitting down at a
desk or in an auditorium and being on
your phone. So literally turning to
someone next to you and saying like hey
I'm Allison. What's your name? Where are
you from? Starting right.
>> God we don't do that in the UK. It's
like creepy behavior.
>> It's okay. And that's you do need to
read the room, right? like it's maybe
not appropriate in all situ. It's a it
can be a shame. It depends on the norms.
>> Once you are engaged with people, it's
all of the talk things. What topics will
they actually find helpful to them? Are
you asking questions? Are you listening
and asking follow-up questions? Are you
moving beyond just trading things, you
know?
Are you learning about each other in a
way that feels revealing? That's where
real relationships come from. What is um
what are these here?
>> Yeah, let's find out.
>> This list of questions here.
>> Oh, this is an exercise that I do. This
is based on a very well-known exercise
called 36 questions to fall in love.
>> Oh, I heard about that.
>> Yeah, Arthur Aaron. It was it was in the
New York Times many years ago. It's
based on some academic research. This is
10 a subset of 10 of those 36 questions.
An exercise I do in my class called 10
questions to fall in like instead of
love.
>> So, if I ask someone those 10 questions,
they're going to like me.
>> Probably. Yeah, more than if you didn't
ask the questions. Um, what you want to
do is you actually go back and forth and
ask each other these questions. So, the
first one is, what are you excited about
lately? Next is, what is something
you're good at but don't like doing?
What's something you're bad at but love
to do? Is there something you'd like to
learn more about? Is there something
you'd like to learn how to do? What can
we celebrate about you? Has someone made
you laugh recently? What's something
cute your kid, friend, pet, or partner
has been doing? Did you grow up in a
city? And have you fallen in love with
any new music, books, movies, shows
lately? It's just 10 questions that are
of this flavor that many people, but I
suspect lots of men don't ask.
>> That are a great starting point. It's
just the first turn, right? You have to
actually listen to what the person says
and ask follow-up questions to really
deepen the conversation and move up that
topic pyramid. But these are good
questions. You could prep just one or
two of them. You could carry two of them
in your back pocket all the time as
go-to topics for people. So, when this
opportunity arises, you could ask them.
I like the one, "What are you excited
about lately?" That's my go-to with a
lot of people. Also, like, have you are
you obsessed with any shows right now?
Is pretty a pretty good one, too. But
the key is not just asking that
question, but actually asking follow-up
questions about like why do you connect
with that show? What do you see in the
main character? Do you see anything from
the main character that you see in
yourself? you know, you got to get more
you got to get deeper into it. The
original research with the 36 questions
to fall in love suggests that going
through these 36 questions
makes you like each other a lot. Um, and
certainly these 10 questions would help
you start. If you need the excuse, I
would love for your listeners to blame
me. If you're feeling if they feel
nervous to ask questions like this,
especially boys or men, say like, "I saw
this crazy lady on Diary of a CEO and
she said I should try asking this
question, so I'm going to try." I my
even my students at Harvard find that
quite helpful to have a scapegoat to
point at me and say, "My professor made
me do this."
It doesn't matter who makes you do it,
whether it's yourself or someone else.
The fact is that you're doing it and
they're going to answer this question
and then you can ask a follow-up and
it's the beginning of a friendship.
>> I did that when I was younger to a girl
I was interested in. I'd seen that TED
talk about the 36 questions, whatever.
And I said to her over text message, I
was like, um, I want to play a game with
you, something that I've just watched.
Are you are you willing to play it with
me? She said, yes. I asked her these 36
questions. And at the end of it, I told
her about the research and whatever in a
non-creepy way.
>> You're a real dork. Yeah. But like, but
it did it did exactly that. We I it
taught me that vulnerability is the
doorway to connection.
>> That's right. It's the doorway to
connection. It's what makes
relationships real. Without it, you
don't have real friendship, right? It's
again, it's consistency of interaction,
positivity. So, you can't be plagued by
negativity and fighting and and anger,
but positivity, fun, being relaxed
around each other, having positive
experiences, but then vulnerability. You
have to learn these things about each
other so that you feel known to each
other and feel like they're uniquely
sharing stuff with you.
>> What about
persuasion? Have you got any any useful
actionable advice for me on how to be a
better salesperson? And when I say
salesperson, I don't mean I'm trying to
sell someone a car. I mean trying to
convince other people of my ideas. So
back I when I do talks in companies
often times someone will stand up and
say I'm trying to persuade my boss to do
X innovative thing they won't listen to
me have you got any tips for me to
persuade them but also persuasion is at
all levels right up down left right in
organizations and in in the world
>> we are persuaded by people we trust and
like and admire right it's people we
interact with and over time we bend to
their view or we are compelled by what
they're sharing with us because we know
that they are smart and trustworthy and
we like them. Persuasion doesn't often
happen within the bounds of one
conversation.
It could if you are asking lots of
questions and able to sort of sit on the
same side of a table together and say,
"Hey, let's learn as much as we can
about this complicated tangle of yarn,
whatever that topic is. Let's see if we
can pull threads together and figure
this out." We were talking earlier about
receptiveness to opposing viewpoints.
Ironically, if you push yourself to
learn as much as you can about the other
person and validate their views however
you act you view those views over the
longer term, you are more likely to be
persuasive because they're willing to
stay engaged with you and listen to what
you have to say in return
>> because they feel heard and understood.
>> Yeah. And they trust that you're not a
jerk and that you're reasonable and that
you're open even to their crazy
viewpoints. I have learned that actually
in my relationships that if I make the
other person feel heard and understood,
they
>> validate. You validate.
>> If I validate, that's a good word.
>> Validate. It's and and validation is not
equivalent to agreement. You can
validate, validate, validate, validate,
validate, and then go on to vehemently
disagree.
>> Yeah.
>> And probably that disagreement is going
to go a lot better after you've
validated them quite a bit.
>> Like the the mistakes I made in maybe
past relationships were when I didn't
validate, it was kind of like a broken
record. the person continue to make the
same point because they didn't feel
heard and understood.
>> That's right.
>> But if I validate,
>> remarkable thing happens where they the
kind of record player stops and then you
can make your case.
>> It's like a magic trick. Um there's
really beautiful research recently that
um people conflate agreement with
listening.
I only think you're listening when
you're agreeing with me. And then and
when you disagree with me, I feel like
you're not hearing me. you're not
listening because obviously what I'm
saying is so sensical and so compelling
that if you're disagreeing with it,
you're literally not hearing me.
>> Agreement and listening are not the same
thing, but in our minds, we get mixed up
about it.
>> Okay. So, I should start every sentence
with I agree, even if I don't.
Interesting. I agree.
>> I think you should start with tell me
more. It makes sense that you feel this
way and I'd like to understand how you
came to hold this viewpoint. I think you
should start with validation.
>> [clears throat]
>> before you do anything else.
>> Yeah. Julian Treasure, what he said to
me was that he did two TED talks, one of
them about speaking, one of them about
listening. Rough numbers, he said the
one about speaking did 40 million views.
The one about listening did like a
fraction of that.
>> Yeah, listening is a is a it's a weird
concept to codify and most people don't
realize that it's a very very high level
skill.
>> It's interesting as to why they don't
think it's important. I think we think
of things active things.
>> That's right. And speaking in
particular, public speaking is very
nerve-wracking. It's like an activity
that makes people incredibly nervous.
>> So any little thing that you could toss
my way that might reduce even a sliver
of that anxiety and make me better at
it, people are so hungry for. It's it's
sort of like more obvious.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. It's more salient. It's more
active. Like you're saying,
>> listening is easy. Just say nothing.
>> Literally. Oh, listen. People think that
listening is like, "Oh, just sit there."
>> Yeah. when in fact it's incredibly
effortful. It's incredibly hard because
our minds are built to wander, right?
Our minds are wandering at least a 25%
of the time, probably a lot more than
that. And people who are good at it.
When we think of people who are
charismatic, likable, smart, savvy, it's
not because of what they're saying, it's
because of how they're listening and
reacting to what they've heard.
Mike Baker, who's another spy, who was a
spy for 20 years, I think, with his CIA
in America, said to me that much of the
job of being a spy and persuading and
manipulating a target in a foreign land
to give over secrets, he said to me that
he would, for example, let's just say it
was in Afghanistan. He would land land
in Afghanistan. He would find the taxi
driver that was driving the government
official who he wanted secrets from. And
he said to me, he might spend seven
weeks in that taxi doing nothing but
listening to this guy.
>> Yes.
>> Listening to the taxi driver. Yes.
Because he said most people in their
life have not had someone listen to them
uninterrupted for like 10 minutes. And
when you listen to someone, they will
offload about themselves.
>> Especially if you ask follow-up
questions.
>> Exactly. So, and he and he asked like,
"So, what are you doing?" And when
you're listening, he was just asking
them and just, you know, asking a
follow-up question. And they would take
me down the path they wanted to take me.
And by week seven of the eight weeks, I
would understand what motivates them.
>> That's right.
>> And I' I would have heard in week seven
that their son has a knee injury and
they're very worried about their son's
health. And then in week eight, when I
got in the taxi, I'd make a proposition
to them. I'd say, I know your son has a
bad knee. We can take care of him.
>> This is exactly the same thing that I
was saying about entrepreneurs, right?
You can you got to have a relationship.
Ask questions, questions, questions,
questions, questions before you finally
get to the thing where you're like, I
have a proposition for you.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. Two things about listening.
First, I'm not surprised to hear that a
taxi driver is a very simple
relationship. They're serving one very
clear purpose in that person's life.
Interacting with someone like a romantic
partner or a work colleague, they what
we it's called multiplexity. They're
serving many more roles. Your girlfriend
is lover, friend, co-chef, you keep a
home together, you're coordinating
domestic domestic tasks. So, she's
serving all of these purposes. That's
much more complicated to sort through
and there will be conflicts of interest
between those roles that she plays in
your life. A way that you would talk to
the future mother of your children is
quite different than how you would talk
to your chef. And yet, she is both of
those things to you, right? So, a taxi
driver is easier to talk to in a way
because it's simpler.
>> Okay, [clears throat] that's one thing.
The next thing is about listening as a
skill like the spy is saying. I'm not
surprised to hear that he's asking
follow-up questions. Often people think
of listening as something that happens
silently. You're just sitting there
absorbing. And that is part of it. But
listening is actually three parts. The
first is perception. I'm seeing you. I'm
observing everything that's happening
about you during our conversation and
everything in your environment. And then
there's auditory cues. I'm hearing your
voice. I'm hearing these acoustic things
like mhm. Yeah. Mhm. And the tone of
your voice and how quickly you speak.
[snorts] So, we take in all this stuff.
Then we process some of it. We elaborate
on some of the things that you've said
and I think more deeply. I can't process
all of it because it's a lot of
information.
What's so unique about conversation is
there's a third step where I can reflect
back to you what I've heard. I can say,
"Oh, that's so interesting that you met
this guy who was a spy who rode in the
taxi. Can you tell me more about that?"
I've now indicated to you that I was
listening, that I'm curious, that I want
to know more. So, our instincts are to
think about nonverbal cues like smiling
and nodding quietly, leaning forward.
advanced listening. People who really
develop the skill of listening actually
use their words to show people that
they've heard them by validating,
affirming, asking follow-up questions.
In a group, you can paraphrase and say
like, "Oh, Stephen, uh, Steven said
this, Cassie said this, then he said
this." I think together, what we're
really talking about is status.
>> You know, that nodding and the mhm
stuff. Is that good or bad?
>> It's useful. That's what we think of as
active listening, which has been studied
for decades. It doesn't indicate that
someone is hearing you at all. They
could be thinking about their grocery
list and smiling and nodding at the same
time. It is useful though to convince
your partner that you're listening to
them and that matters even if it's not
connected to what you're thinking about
at all. If you were to not smile and
nod, the omission of it would be
jarring. So, in that sense, it's like
normative. You have to do it. It's sort
of like listening 101, but listening
2011 301 is using these verbal cues to
show someone you've heard them.
>> You understood the objective when we sat
down. I want to become the best talker,
conversationalist, the most persuasive,
most liked person on earth. That was the
objective that I gave you the brief.
Is there anything that we haven't talked
about that we should have talked about?
>> We haven't talked about silence. uh
wrote a chapter about silence that I
dropped because I think it's an entirely
separate book. It's kind of ironic that
this book is called talk because we do
so much communicating between the lines.
There's so much information exchanged in
just a shared glance.
>> When people don't know each other well,
long pauses are a sign that the
conversation's not going well. So, if
you're on a first date and you feel like
the conversation is dying and you're in
have that panicky feeling of what do we
talk about next? That's legit. You
should not let that happen. You should
go in with topics prepped and not let or
or this list of lovely questions and ask
those questions. Later in a
relationship, after you've known someone
a long time, longer pauses are a sign
that you're comfortable with each other
>> that you could [clears throat] sit in
total silence and companionable silence
and that it's comfortable and nice. So,
it means different things as
relationships evolve. There's so much we
can do in our conversations that are not
about the words we say to each other
too.
There's another chapter I dropped. Do
you want to hear about it, Stephen?
>> Of course I want to hear about it.
>> It's about talking in the digital age.
>> So, this is this is what I was going to
ask you about as well is now we have
large language models which are writing
lots of AI slop for us.
>> Yes. And if you log into social media,
even email, Slack channels, sometimes in
WhatsApp,
I look at the messages that that look,
I'll take it responsibly as well.
Sometimes that I'm sending, sometimes
that I'm receiving and because of AI,
they're getting increasingly less
soulful. M
>> when I scroll certain social media
platforms which I shan name
>> um
[laughter]
>> I feel disconnected
>> from people now. Yes.
>> Because my comments are all like AI slop
stuff with a big M dash and oh my god
this is so amazing Stephen
>> and you know that no human writes like
that.
>> Yeah. In a digital age, in an AI world,
do we need to start communicating
differently
so that people
do you know what I've started doing?
Intentional spelling mistakes.
>> I love that.
>> If you go on my LinkedIn, you'll notice
that I have totally disregarded grammar.
>> Okay, let me start by telling you about
an exercise that I do in my class. I
think it'll be thoughtprovoking for you.
So, your question is about the content
of what we type to each other. So
textbased communication whether it's on
social media or over text or over email
and there are
clear things that we should do to make
our textbased communication better
mostly make it shorter emails shorter
use headings use bullet points get to
the point think about what other people
need only give them that okay but I
think more broadly
what is quite thoughtprovoking is to
think about how your life proceeds these
days your conversational life unfolds.
So in my class, I ask my students to do
a communication audit of like 20 to 30
minutes in their life where you
transcribe every incoming and outgoing
message
across all digital and face-toface
modalities.
So your DMs, your emails, your texts,
your phone calls, your Zoom calls, your
face tof face interactions, all of it.
>> Can you imagine?
>> No.
>> It's quite hard. Yeah,
>> it's the sort of topline thing you
notice is that it's so much it's just a
crazy amount of communication that's
happening in our lives now when only
maybe 20 years ago it was like 10% of
what it is now. I think we all feel that
sort of overwhelm.
Not only is it a lot, it's a we're
constantly sort of toggling and
adjusting from one mode of communication
to the next. So, I'm like talking to you
while I'm like texting under the table,
while I hear my emails going and knowing
that my DMs are blowing up.
That mental adjustment is really
exhausting. And across each of those
modes, we're like engaging in different
ideas and different threads, different
topics with different people. And so,
you start to realize how braided and
overlapping all of these things are. And
it's quite hard to keep it all straight
and to make all of these decisions about
like well who does who should I be
responding to.
We then default to the people who are
right in front of us but any other mode
of communication we're like well who
should come first?
>> Who gets my attention first? And
attention is love right like who gets my
love essentially.
The thing that my students note about
this exercise, which is completely
mind-blowing, and I would recommend that
anybody try it, is that only face-toface
conversations feel real
in retrospect and while they're
happening.
>> Yeah.
>> Now, that doesn't mean that the other
ones aren't important. Of course, email
is so important for transactional
information exchange, but it's not real.
It's not what the human brain was built
to do. our brains evolved to do this
face to it's why I prefer doing an
interview like this in person than on
Zoom
because it's real and we're going to
have it's so engaging and we're going to
have a real memory of it later. And that
memory might be sort of vague. You'll be
like, "Oh, I knew this like, you know,
middle-aged white woman with brown hair.
She had a lot of energy." Right? Like
that might be the extent of what you
remember, but it's it was real and we
can hold that memory. And I think what I
find so troubling,
there's a lot I find troubling, but this
um our conversational lives have become
very unreal.
And
that's
why we feel so disconnected and lonely
and that loneliness is just outrageously
high. We're not having real interactions
and real relationships.
Even even having this device here, by
the way, is it is a portal to another
place. So devices
replace our conversations because we're
on here instead of engaging. They also
disrupt. It's so if it's on a table in
front of you or you hear it buzzing or
dinging in the background, it distracts
your attention away from having a real
engaged interaction. Do you have any um
advice for anybody in a world of AI
where it's going to be really easy to
make our communications Yeah.
generatively using chat GBT or whatever
else?
>> I I just I just have noticed that what I
start what I've started to discount
and there's certain um there was there's
certain team members that I have that
have really lent into the use of AI for
all of their coms and I noticed myself
ignoring them.
>> Yeah. Because when they sent me an email
report of something that happened in one
particular scenario, every email report
I knew was written by AI. So I didn't
think it was worth reading because I
actually want to hear from them.
>> Yeah.
>> I trust them and their opinion. My
relationship is to their experience and
their knowledge. And if I when I
realized that it was all just AI because
of the formatting of it, I start I
started ignoring it. That three or four
weeks goes past and I thought, you know,
I should tell them.
>> Yeah, they should know.
>> So I went and had a conversation with
them. I said, "This is just a perception
thing, but I've noticed myself now not
paying the same attention I used to
because I want to know what you think
and because it feels like I'm speaking
to chatbt."
>> What's their comeback to that?
>> They were really they were really
thankful and they completely changed and
it completely immediately even though I
now know they're still using it's so
crazy cuz I know they're still using it.
They've built this bot basically for
this particular part of feedback
>> which um which they're using. All
they've done is changed the prompt into
their bot to make it sound a little bit
more human. Yeah.
>> And I'm now reading it again because I
can't tell the difference.
>> Oh my goodness. That's so
thoughtprovoking. I think there's two
things going on there. One, you are
invested in people. That's what we get
invested in. We care about people and
relationships. As soon as you feel like
you're not getting them and you're
getting some weird proxy of them, are
we're less motivated to engage with it.
That's going to be that's totally
normal.
>> I'll tell you the context. It was a it's
interview feedback. So, they're
interviewing someone and then the
feedback they're sending me is was
written by AI.
>> Yeah.
>> I trust their experience and their
intuition and their ability just to feel
someone. I don't know if I trust Chat
GBT to interview my candidates.
>> Yeah.
>> So, I just wanted to feel like I was
getting it from that person.
>> So, there's this relational replacement
thing where you're like and you just
want to disengage. There's this other
piece that's sort of more meta which is
that LLM sort of push us our
communications a reversion to the mean
like a like a right to the middle. So it
literally is taking out the personality
and weirdness and creativity out of it.
Can I tell you I I did an experiment
this semester in my class. I had my
students do office hours with an AI
version of me.
>> Okay.
>> You preferred it.
>> Well, that's a risky [laughter]
experiment. That's a risky
>> the reason I actually think she is
better than me in some ways. I I want to
preface this by saying I think chatbots
are most chatbots are deeply
problematic. But this one its goal is
not to convince users to talk more with
her. It's to sort of coach them on their
questions related to conversation so
that they can prep and perform better in
their real conversations with humans.
Okay. I do think she's better than me in
many ways. Most importantly, she's
available. She's available all the time
whenever they need her and I'm a
nightmare to schedule with. Uh number
two, she's not grading them. So, anytime
a student comes to me and has office
hours, there's this conflict of interest
where they're
>> worried.
>> They should be I am grading them. Yeah.
Like I I do care about them as people
and also I am going to grade them at the
end of the semester. That's a weird that
makes a relationship quite weird. So,
they don't want to ask dumb questions
>> and I have to question their motives
because I'm like, "Are you here because
you're actually interested in what
you're asking me or because you're
trying to impress me and get a better
grade, right?" It's a weird context. So,
she's less judgmental in a way. I guess
the other thing that she can do is what
you were saying, which is
>> after they talk with her and get advice
about their conversations, she gives
them feedback about how the conversation
went. She says, "Here are the topics we
covered. Here's how many questions you
asked. here were the moments of levity.
Here's how well you were listening and
doing kindness.
Even if I as a human can think those
things, I do not have the bandwidth or
time to craft the feedback to the
students to 200 students at once.
So I in short I feel incredibly torn
about all things AI. I think there are
use cases like this that are really
amazing and intriguing and make things
easier and more efficient.
And as a manager policy maker, that's
why it's so troubling because as long as
things continue to AI continues to make
individuals lives easier and more
convenient,
I don't know how we can stop and
regulate
regulate it. I think as well that in a
world of AI and robots, it's going to be
very tempting to overlook the most human
skills.
>> Yes.
>> And those that don't, those that fight
against the ease of allowing a chatbot
to speak for you will develop a
superpower, one that's going to be in
even more scarce in the future, which is
all the things you've said in this
framework.
>> Yeah. like really understanding how to
be with a person IRL and have great
conversations I think is going to be
such a superpower.
>> It is talk
is the advantage that humans have over
AI. It has always been true that
conversation is the skill that we that
matters most for achieving everything
you want in life.
>> But it just seems more obvious now that
we need to lean into that even more.
>> The irreplaceably human stuff. Correct.
And some of it, I don't even know if
irreplaceable is the right word. It's
like the things that no matter what the
future holds for us, the things that are
still going to matter. I'll put all my
chips on a bet. When I think about what
I need to be teaching my kids, I can
imagine worlds where like work is no
longer a thing and when innovation is no
longer a thing, but I cannot imagine a
world where they're not going to need to
connect with other human beings and talk
to them well and joyfully and with
respect in real life.
>> In real life. Yeah.
>> I think uh you were talking about
boomers earlier on. I think um boomers
are much better conversationalists than
genzers and
>> because they have more reps.
>> They have more repetitions and they grew
up in the real world where they were
forced to develop the skills.
>> That's right. It's part of the reason
that I think we see a lot of sort of
like misunderstanding and judgment
between the generations is that right
now the people who are alive have
experienced very very different
realities
and the skills that you have developed
in those different realities are quite
different and it means that we're we
actually are more different from each
other across the generations. Um, on on
the front of your book talk, it says,
"The science of conversation and the art
of being ourselves.
Do you think we should show up to work
as our authentic selves?"
>> There's a great phrase, what a great
question. Um, there's a great phrase by
a scholar named Juliana Pillmer, who's
at NYU, um, called strategic
authenticity.
Okay.
If you were to bring your full self to
work, it would be a nightmare for you
and everyone around you.
>> Tell me about it.
>> At the beginning of my class, I have
people do this thing that's like, "Okay,
identify your type, your conversation
types." And there's like 13 good types
and 13 bad types.
You know, there's like the asker and the
curious cat and the chatterbox and
whatever. The whole thing is a straw man
because we're all all of those things.
We all have habits that are good
sometimes and habits that are bad
sometimes. And our behavior shifts
radically from one situation to the
next. I'm not going to behave the same
way at a bachelorette party in Vegas as
I do when I'm doing bath time with my
children. If you did, it would be insane
and it wouldn't serve anybody's goals.
>> What happens in Vegas? [laughter]
wigs apparently andale dancers. Um
>> um
>> the point is that our behavior shifts
from one conversation to the next even
from one moment to the next in every
conversation and it should that's what
it means to read the room and read the
context and adjust. My my husband has a
saying athletes adjust and it's exactly
right good conversationalists adjust. So
if you in your mind are like this is who
I am and I'm gonna bring that whole self
to every space that I inhabit, it's not
going to go well.
>> Strategic authenticity.
>> Yeah. Bring bring the things that make
the values that make you you bring them
to work. It's the things that you care
about and are uncompromising about, but
you can adjust your behavior to to fit
the needs of the situation.
>> Do you pretend and act?
>> No. This is a great question. I we like
to debate this in my class about um
authenticity,
manipulation, what is real, what's
sincere. I guess sincerity might be the
right word to use. Let's use question
asking as an example. Imagine that we
get to a point in in the interview where
you're like, "Oh, I think I need to ask
a question right now."
You might not be dying to hear the
answer to it, but you know as a good
interviewer that you need to ask that
question in that moment.
That doesn't mean that you are evil,
unkind, insincere, manipulative. It
means that you're trying to live up to
the goal of the conversation. And trying
to live up to the goal of, hey, we're
going to learn as much as we can from
each other. I want to show you respect
and interest in your perspective. I want
to have a good conversation. that itself
lives up to who you are. Like that's the
whole point of being here.
>> You know what I mean?
>> Yeah. Of course. Yeah.
>> So these fleeting moments of like
insincerity, it I think people overfocus
on that as a signal of inauthenticity.
>> Okay. Fine.
>> If it's tied to an more overarching goal
of like I want to be a good human being
and a good conversationalist often
because I want to serve the needs of
others. So you can be slightly insincere
[laughter]
um in in the pursuit of sincerity. Yes.
>> And those those those moments of
insincerity are gone in an instant as
soon as I ask this question that maybe
I'm not dying to hear how was your
weekend. Um you're going to give me an
answer and I'm sincerely going to search
for something in there that I am
interested in and I'm going to ask a
follow-up question and make it better.
>> Okay. So when I met you, you did ask me
how how I was doing. Was that
>> I The question I've been dying to ask
you is about children.
>> Uh me and my girlfriend are trying at
the moment. So hopefully
>> Stephen, I'm so excited for you.
>> What are you excited about?
>> I just think it's one of the most
miraculous things that you can
experience as a human being and I'm
hopeful for you.
>> Yeah.
>> Good luck.
>> I hope you get to experience that. I
It's a very um it's a very
different experience to add to your
resume.
>> I know. And I think that's why I'm
excited by it because
>> it is the great unknown.
>> And in some respects in my head, this
might be the wrong framing, but it feels
like the great sacrifice.
>> Yeah, it's both. And you know what I
always say, it's like the most selfenter
self-interested and uh least
selfinterested thing you can do.
Self-interest in the you're like making
a copy of yourself. Yeah. Okay. Like
talk about narcissism,
>> but it's just inc. It really life is no
longer about you.
>> That's terrifying to hear. M
>> it is terrifying to hear objectively
like I understand what you're saying and
I and I agree but it's also as a
statement for anybody to know that
they're kind of giving up
>> your current self sense of self
>> for someone else you've never met
>> well you're giving it up not you're
giving giving up might not be the right
phrase you're change you're evolving
into a different version of you for them
>> the more freedom and like resources you
have before kids means it's you may
experience that as a more as a loss.
>> No, that's good. Thank [laughter] you
for that.
>> But you also have more to gain. It
really is. It's um really incredible.
It's easy to focus on like fertility and
having children and to ask probing
prying questions about, you know, how
many do you want and whatever,
>> but I I I think it's easy to focus on
like the birth process and and overlook
how long childhood is. It's 18 years.
And I think the major project of it is
helping kids learn to talk to other
people.
>> And how do you do that? I'm sure there's
loads of parents screaming right now
like, "How do I h how do I set my kid up
so that they can talk well?"
>> Yeah.
>> Communicate well.
>> I think it's what we're doing every
moment of every day. You're interacting
with them directly and sort of role
modeling what you think that looks like.
Helping them through difficult moments,
helping them both fail and succeed. It's
very important. Um, and we're hoping to
adapt the talk course for high schoolers
and younger children quite soon.
>> Do I need to get them off YouTube and
all that stuff? And
>> yes,
>> and screens.
>> Yes.
>> Is a little bit of YouTube. Okay.
>> A little bit of anything might be okay.
Digital stuff is hard though because
they you give them an inch, they take a
mile, and it becomes habitual.
>> So, what do you do with your kids?
It's a constant um evolution and
learning and we give them 20 minutes
>> a day.
>> Yeah. On a computer that doesn't move
and nothing moves. They can't carry it
with them.
>> And what age does that change?
>> Uh to be determined. They know that
they're not getting a phone like a phone
phone. Um now I'm getting more and more
extreme. I feel like maybe never, but um
certainly not until 9th grade. and then
social media much later than that. I
mean, if I I it's like it's an
interesting we'll see how it goes, but
it's a it's it's just such a slippery
slope, but it's so bad for them.
Jonathan Heights done a wonderful job.
Angela, my friend Angela Duckworth is
doing great work. Matt Gensko at
Stanford um trying to help schools sort
this out.
>> I have that to look forward to.
[laughter] No problems.
Allison, we have a closing tradition
where the last guest leaves a question
for the next guest. not knowing who
they're leaving it for. And the question
left for you is, if your life was a
movie and the audience were watching up
to this point, what would they be
screaming at the screen telling you to
do right now?
>> What a fabulous question. Thank you,
previous guest.
Leave Harvard.
Save the children
with talk.
devote all of your time and resources to
helping every high schooler in the world
learn to do this better.
>> Why?
>> I think it's the ultimate human skill
and everyone has the potential to do it
well and it's not a zero- sum game. The
more people who do it well, the better
off we'll all be.
>> You said save. Why did you use the word
save? I think we're in a period where we
actually are needing to save them from
digital addiction and l and loneliness.
We've gotten to a place that we need to
roll back and it's really scary.
And I think one first step is let's get
the devices out of schools ideally out
of families in their hands but then the
next step is like what rises to replace
it and I think it could be this talk
curriculum. So, are you going to do
that?
>> Mhm.
>> You're going to leave Harvard
>> TBD.
>> See, is that an announcement? Are they
aware? [laughter]
It's an exclusive. Is that the
thumbnail?
Allison, thank you so much. Thank you
for the work that you do because it's
very important work and it's very timely
work considering everything that's going
on in the world um at this moment in
time. And this book is the definitive
book on the art of you said it yourself.
The framework that you've you've built
here is one that's deeply based on
science and research. And oftentimes we
want to have conversations about
communication that's full of platitudes
and opinions and a lot of generic things
that aren't supported by scientific
rigor. But you've done the research.
You've committed so much of your life to
this subject and you've managed to write
it all in a way that's truly accessible
to people like me who are simply, you
know, muggles
>> and [laughter] don't understand big
words sometimes. So, it's it's a
wonderful entry, but also um a sort of
an expansive look into the science of
great talk.
We've touched on several things in this
book, but there's so much more we could
have gone through. So, I'm going to
leave that to the audience. I'm going to
link it below for anyone that wants to
read it. But also, thank you because I
think of these issues as being issues
that are really foundational to the most
important things in our lives, like
family, like friendships, like
relationships, like the success and the
pursuit of our goals. And what you're
giving people here is a road map to
reach their highest potential.
>> Yeah. Thank you.
>> Through this thing called talk and
that's a really wonderful thing.
>> So if anyone wants this book, it's
linked below. Highly recommend. Um is
there anywhere else one should go to get
more of your work. Is there a place?
>> Sure. Um Allisonwoodbrooks.com
has this new quiz that's so fun. Find
out your conversation type. Get really
clear advice, little tips about how to
navigate things and all the science
that's underlying those tips. um very
very soon. You can go to talkstudios.com
and look up find out more about this
curriculum we're developing for high
schoolers.
>> I'll link both of them below
>> Dr. Allison Wood Brooks. Thank you so
much.
>> Thank you so much, Stephen. Thank you
for amplifying my work and I just think
what you're doing here is fabulous. So,
thank you.
>> Thank you. [music]
>> Make sure you keep what I'm about to say
to yourself. I'm inviting 10,000 of you
to come even deeper into the diary of a
CEO. Welcome to my inner circle. This is
a brand new private community that I'm
launching to the world. We have so many
incredible things that happen that you
are never shown. We have the briefs that
are on my iPad when I'm recording the
conversation. We have clips we've never
released. We have behindthe-scenes
conversations with the guest and also
the episodes that we've never ever
released. And so much more. In the
circle, you'll have direct access to me.
You can tell us what you want this show
to be, who you want us to interview, and
the types of conversations you would
love us to have. But remember, for now,
we're only inviting the first 10,000
people that join before it closes. So,
if you want to join our private closed
community, head to the link in the
description below or go to
daccircle.com.
I will speak to you then.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Oh,
hey. Ah.
[singing]
>> [music]